---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 14
---

[[2 Chr-13|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-15|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
 ^[[[2 Chr-14|2 Chronicles 14:1–15]] in the English Bible is 13:23–14:14 in the Hebrew Bible] And Abijah slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son became king in his place. In his days the land was at rest ten years.

###### v2
Asa did that which _was_ good and right in the eyes of Yahweh his God.

###### v3
He removed the foreign altars and high places, broke down the stone pillars, and cut down the Asherahs.

###### v4
And he commanded Judah to seek Yahweh, the God of their ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and to keep the law and the commandment.

###### v5
And he removed the high places and the incense stands from all the cities of Judah, and the kingdom had rest under ^[Or "before"] him.

###### v6
And he built fortified cities in Judah, for the land was at rest. Under ^[Or "With"] him there was no war in those years, for Yahweh had given rest to him.

###### v7
And he said to Judah, "Let us build these cities and surround _them with_ walls, towers, gates, and bars while the land _is_ before us, because we have sought Yahweh our God. We have sought and he has given rest to us on every side." So they built and had success.

###### v8
And Asa had an army _of_ three hundred thousand from Judah, bearing shields and spears, and two hundred and eighty thousand from Benjamin _who_ carried shields and drew bows. All of these _were_ mighty warriors of strength.

###### v9
Zerah the Cushite came out against them with an army of a thousand thousands and three hundred chariots. And he came to Mareshah.

###### v10
And Asa went out before him, and a battle was put in order in the valley of Zepah at Mareshah.

###### v11
Then Asa cried out to Yahweh his God. And he said, "O Yahweh, there is none with you to help between the great and the powerless. Help us, O Yahweh our God, for we rely upon you, and in your name we have come against this multitude. O Yahweh, you _are_ our God! Let no man prevail against you!"

###### v12
So Yahweh defeated the Cushites before Asa and before Judah, and the Cushites fled.

###### v13
Then Asa and the army ^[Or "people"] with him pursued them to Gerar. And _many_ from the Cushites fell, for they had no deliverance, for they were shattered before Yahweh and before his army. And they carried away much war booty.

###### v14
And they struck all the cities around Gerar, for the fear of Yahweh was upon them. And they plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them.

###### v15
And they also struck the tents of the herdsmen and carried away many sheep and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.