---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 5
---

[[2 Chr-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
When all the work that Solomon did for the house of Yahweh was finished, Solomon brought the holy objects of David his father: the silver, the gold, and all the objects he had put into the storehouses of the house of God.

###### v2
Then Solomon assembled all the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] for the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] to Jerusalem in order to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the city of David, which _is_ Zion.

###### v3
And all the men of Israel assembled before the king at the feast that _is in_ the seventh month.

###### v4
And all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took up the ark.

###### v5
And they brought up the ark, the tent of assembly, ^[Or "meeting"] and all the holy objects that _were_ in the tent; the Levitical priests brought them up.

###### v6
And King Solomon and the whole community of Israel that was assembled before him _were_ before the ark, sacrificing sheep and cattle that could not be counted nor numbered for abundance.

###### v7
Then the priests brought up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to its place in the inner sanctuary of the house, into _the most holy place_, underneath the wings of the cherubim.

###### v8
The cherubim were spreading _their_ wings over the place of the ark, so that the cherubim were covering the ark and over its poles _from_ above.

###### v9
But the poles were _so_ long that the ends of the poles from the ark were seen from before the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen from the outside. And they are there until this day.

###### v10
There was nothing in the ark but the two stone tablets that Moses had put _inside_ at Horeb _on_ which Yahweh had _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] a covenant with the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] when they went out from Egypt.

###### v11
And when the priests came out of the sanctuary (for all the priests who were present ^[Or "who were found"] sanctified themselves without keeping their divisions)

###### v12
and all the Levitical singers--Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun, their sons, their brothers, dressed _in_ fine linen, with cymbals, harps, and stringed instruments--_they_ were standing to the east of the altar. And with them outside _were_ one hundred and twenty priests _who were_ trumpet blowers.

###### v13
And it was the primary _duty_ of the trumpeters and singers to make themselves heard _with_ one voice, to praise and give thanks to Yahweh. And when a sound from the trumpets, cymbals, and other instruments of song was raised to Yahweh--for he _is_ good, because his loyal love _is_ everlasting--then the house, the house of Yahweh, was filled with a cloud.

###### v14
And the priests were not able to stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of Yahweh filled the house of God.