---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 31
---

[[2 Chr-30|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-32|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And when all this was finished, all Israel who were found in the cities of Judah went out and shattered the stone pillars, cut down the Asherahs, and destroyed the high places and the altars from all Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh _to the very last one_. ^[Literally "until finishing"] Then all the Israelites returned, each to his own property _and_ to their cities.

###### v2
And Hezekiah appointed working groups of the priests and the Levites, each according to their divisions, _according to the service for priests and Levites_, ^[Literally "according to the mouth of his service, for priests and Levites"] for burnt offerings, for peace offerings, to serve, to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the camps of Yahweh.

###### v3
And the gift of the king _was_ out of his own possessions for the burnt offerings--the burnt offerings for the morning and the evening and for Sabbaths, new moon festivals, and appointed feasts, as is written in the law of Yahweh.

###### v4
Then he said to the people, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to give a gift for the priests and the Levites, so that they might be strong in the law of Yahweh.

###### v5
And the word spread. The Israelites gave abundantly _from_ the firstfruits of grain, new wine, olive oil, honey, and all _kinds of_ grains from the field. And they brought tithes of everything in abundance.

###### v6
Then the people of Israel and Judah who were living in the cities of Judah, they also brought a tithe of cattle and sheep and a tithe of consecrated objects to Yahweh their God. And they gave heaps _upon_ heaps.

###### v7
In the third month the heaps began to pile up, and in the seventh month they ceased.

###### v8
When Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed Yahweh and his people Israel.

###### v9
And Hezekiah questioned ^[Or "sought"] the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps.

###### v10
And Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok answered him, saying, "Since the offerings began to be brought to the house of Yahweh, _we have_ eaten and been satisfied, and have much to spare, for Yahweh has blessed his people. Now _see_ this abundant remainder!"

###### v11
And Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of Yahweh, and they were prepared.

###### v12
Then they brought the offerings and tithes and holy objects faithfully. And over them _as_ leader _was_ Conaniah the Levite. And Shimei his brother _was_ second _in rank_.

###### v13
And Jehiel, Azaziah, Nathan, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah _were_ chief officers under the hand of Conaniah and Shimei, his brother, by appointment of King Hezekiah. And Azaraiah _was_ leader of the house of God.

###### v14
Now Kore the son of Imlah, the Levite, the gatekeeper of the east gate _was_ over the freewill offerings of God, to give offerings to Yahweh and the most holy things.

###### v15
And at his hand _were_ Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah in the cities of the priests _and_ _entrusted_ ^[Literally "in faithfulness"] to give to their brothers by working groups, according to the eldest _to_ the youngest,

###### v16
besides their enrollment by genealogy, to males from three years old and upward, to all who came into the house of Yahweh, _as each day required_ ^[Literally "for the word of the day by his day"] for their service in their posts according to their working groups.

###### v17
And the enrollment of the priests _was_ according to the house of their fathers, and the Levites, from twenty years old and upward, according to their posts by their working groups.

###### v18
And _they were_ enrolled with all their little ones, their wives, their sons, and their daughters for the whole assembly because of their faithfulness. And they sanctified themselves in holiness.

###### v19
And for the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Aaron, the priests, _who were_ in the fields of the pasturelands of their cities, _in each and every one of their cities_ ^[Literally "in every city and the city"] _were_ men who were designated by name to give shares to every male among the priests and to everyone enrolled among the Levites.

###### v20
And Hezekiah did according to this throughout all Judah. And he did what _is_ good and what _is_ right and what _is_ faithful before Yahweh his God.

###### v21
And in every work that he began in the service of the house of God or with respect to the law and the commandment to seek his God, he did with all his heart, and he prospered.