---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 12
---

[[2 Chr-11|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-13|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And when the kingdom of Rehoboam was established and when he was strengthened, he forsook the law of Yahweh, and all Israel with him.

###### v2
And it happened _that_ in the fifth year of King Rehoboam (for they had acted unfaithfully against Yahweh), Shishak the king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem

###### v3
with one thousand two hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. And there was no number to the people who came up with him from Egypt--Libyans, Sukkites, and Cushites.

###### v4
And he took the fortified cities that belonged to Judah, and he came up to Jerusalem.

###### v5
Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem from before Shishak. And he said to them, "Thus says Yahweh: 'You yourselves have abandoned me, and I myself have surely abandoned you into the hand of Shishak.'"

###### v6
Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, "Yahweh _is_ righteous."

###### v7
And when Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves, the word of Yahweh came to Shemaiah, saying, "They have humbled themselves; I will not destroy. I will give to them some way of escape, that my anger not be poured out against Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.

###### v8
However, they shall be his servants, that they might know my service and the service of the kingdoms of _other_ countries."

###### v9
Then Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and he took the treasures out of the house of Yahweh and the treasures out of the king's house. He took everything. He also took the small shields of gold that Solomon had made.

###### v10
And King Rehoboam made small shields of bronze in their place and committed them into the hand of the commanders of the guards who were keeping the entrance of the house of the king.

###### v11
And whenever the king went into the house of Yahweh, the guards came and carried them, and then they returned them to the alcove of the guards.

###### v12
And when he humbled himself, the anger of Yahweh was turned away from him, so that he did not destroy _the city_ completely. Moreover, matters were well in Judah.

###### v13
So King Rehoboam was strengthened in Jerusalem, and he reigned _there_. Now, Rehoboam _was_ forty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city where Yahweh had chosen to put his name out of all the tribes of Israel. And the name of his mother _was_ Naamah the Ammonite.

###### v14
And he did evil, for he did not set his heart to seek Yahweh.

###### v15
Now the words of Rehoboam _from_ the first to the last, are they not written in the chronicles ^[Or "words"] of Shemaiah the prophet and Iddo the seer as a record? And _there were_ battles _between_ Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their ^[Or "the"] days.

###### v16
And Rehoboam slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and he was buried in the city of David, and Abijah his son reigned in his place.