---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 27
---

[[2 Chr-26|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-28|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Jotham _was_ twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother _was_ Jerusha the daughter of Zadok.

###### v2
And he did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, according to all that his father Uzziah had done--only he did not go into the temple of Yahweh. But the people still acted corruptly.

###### v3
He built the upper gate of the house of Yahweh, and _he did much restoration_ ^[Literally "he built much"] on the wall of Ophel.

###### v4
And he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and he built forts and towers in the wooded places.

###### v5
Now he fought with the king of the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and prevailed against them. And the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] gave to him in that year one hundred talents of silver and ten thousand measures of wheat and ten thousand _measures of_ barley. This _is what_ the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] rendered to him, as well as in the second and third year.

###### v6
And Jotham strengthened himself, for he established his ways before Yahweh his God.

###### v7
Now the remainder of the words of Jotham and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written upon the scroll of the kings of Israel and Judah.

###### v8
He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.

###### v9
And Jotham slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in the city of David. And his son Ahaz became king in his place.