---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 2
---

[[2 Chr-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
 ^[[[2 Chr-02|2 Chronicles 2:1–18]] in the English Bible is 1:18–2:17 in the Hebrew Bible] And Solomon planned to build a house for the name of Yahweh and a _royal palace for himself_. ^[Literally "house for his kingdom"]

###### v2
And Solomon assigned seventy thousand men _to bear burdens_ ^[Literally "carriers"] and eighty thousand _quarriers_ ^[Literally "stone craftsmen"] in the hill country, and three thousand six hundred _men_ to supervise them.

###### v3
And Solomon sent _word_ to Huram ^[This is the spelling in Hebrew, though many translations have "Hiram"] king of Tyre, saying, "As you have dealt with David my father and sent cedar to him to build for himself a house in which to live, _please deal with me_.

###### v4
Look, I am building a house for the name of Yahweh my God to dedicate to him, to offer sweet spices of incense before him, and _for_ the regular rows _of bread_, and burnt offerings for mornings, evenings, Sabbaths, and new moon festivals, and for appointed feasts of Yahweh our God which _are_ everlasting for Israel.

###### v5
And the house that I am building _will be_ great, for our God _is_ greater than all gods.

###### v6
Now who indeed has adequate strength to build a house for him? For the heavens and _the highest heavens_ ^[Literally "the heavens of the heavens"] are not able to contain him. Now who _am_ I that I would build a house for him, except to burn incense before him?

###### v7
So then, send to me skilled men to work with gold, silver, bronze, and iron, and with purple, crimson, and blue fabric, knowledgeable in engraving, with the skilled men who _are_ with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom David my father has established.

###### v8
Send me trees of cedar, cypress, and algum from Lebanon, for I myself know that your servants _are_ knowledgeable in cutting the trees of Lebanon. Now see, my servants _will be_ with your servants

###### v9
to prepare trees in abundance for me, for the house that I am building _will be_ great and wonderful.

###### v10
Now see, I will provide twenty thousand dry measures of crushed wheat, twenty thousand dry measures of barley, twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil to the woodcarvers and those who cut timber."

###### v11
Then Huram ^[This is the spelling in Hebrew, though many translations have "Hiram"] king of Tyre answered in a letter, and he sent _word_ to Solomon: "Because Yahweh loves his people, he has made you king over them."

###### v12
Then Huram ^[This is the spelling in Hebrew, though many translations have "Hiram"] said, "Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, who has made the heavens and the earth, who has given to King David a wise son knowing discretion and understanding, who will build for Yahweh a house and a royal palace for himself.

###### v13
So now I have sent a skilled man, knowledgeable _and with_ understanding: my master ^[Or "my father"] Huram,

###### v14
a son of a woman from the daughters of Dan, and his father _was_ a man of Tyre, knowledgeable for working with gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and wood, and with purple, blue, and crimson fabric, and with fine linen, for engraving any engraving and devising any plan that is given to him, with your skilled men and the skilled men of my lord David your father.

###### v15
Now as for the wheat, barley, oil, and wine that my lord mentioned, let him send _that_ to his servants.

###### v16
And we ourselves will cut trees from Lebanon according to all your need, and we will bring them to you on rafts over the sea to Joppa, so that you may bring them up to Jerusalem."

###### v17
Then Solomon counted all the resident alien men who _were_ in the land of Israel after the census that David his father had taken of them. And there were found one hundred and fifty-three thousand.

###### v18
And he appointed from them seventy thousand _to bear burdens_, ^[Literally "carriers"] eighty thousand _to quarry_ ^[Literally "stone craftsmen"] in the hill country, and three thousand six hundred overseers to make the people work.