---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 11
---

[[2 Chr-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
When Rehoboam came to Jerusalem he assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin, one hundred and eighty thousand _chosen warriors_, ^[Literally "chosen makers of war"] to fight against Israel to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam.

###### v2
But the word of Yahweh came to Shemaiah, the man of God, saying,

###### v3
"Say to Rehoboam, son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin,

###### v4
'Thus says Yahweh: "Do not go up, and do not fight against your brothers. Return, each man to his house, for this matter has come from me."'" So they obeyed the words of Yahweh and turned back from going against Jeroboam.

###### v5
And Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem, and he built cities as strongholds in Judah.

###### v6
He built Bethlehem, Etah, Tekoa,

###### v7
Beth-Zur, Socoh, Adullam,

###### v8
Gath, Mareshah, Ziph,

###### v9
Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah,

###### v10
Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron, fortified cities that _are_ in Judah and in Benjamin.

###### v11
And he strengthened the fortifications and put commanders in them, _along with_ stores of food, olive oil, and wine.

###### v12
And in all the cities _he put_ shields and spears, and he greatly strengthened them. So he had Judah and Benjamin.

###### v13
Now the priests and the Levites who _were_ throughout all Israel took their stand with him ^[That is, Rehoboam] from all their territories.

###### v14
For the Levites left their pasturelands and their property and came to Judah and to Jerusalem, for Jeroboam and his sons had rejected them from serving as priests to Yahweh.

###### v15
And he appointed his own priests for the high places and for the goat idols and for the bull calves that he had made.

###### v16
Then after them, from all the tribes of Israel, those who set their heart to seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, came to Jerusalem to offer to Yahweh, the God of their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v17
And they strengthened the kingdom of Judah and made Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, secure for three years, for they walked in the way of David and Solomon for three years.

###### v18
Then Rehoboam took to himself as a wife Mahalath, the daughter ^[This follows the reading tradition (_Qere)_; the _Kethib_ reading has "son"] of Yerimot son of David, and of Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse.

###### v19
And she bore to him sons: Jeush, Shemariah, and Zaham.

###### v20
And after her he took Maacah the daughter of Absalom, who bore to him Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith.

###### v21
And Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter of Absalom more than all his wives and concubines (for he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and he fathered twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters).

###### v22
And Rehoboam appointed Abijah the son of Maacah as chief and crown prince over his brothers, in order to make him king.

###### v23
And he dealt wisely and distributed some of his sons throughout all the land of Judah and Benjamin, through all the fortified cities, and gave abundant provisions to them and obtained many wives _for them_.