---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 32
---

[[2 Chr-31|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-33|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
After these things and these _acts of_ faithfulness, Sennacherib the king of Assyria came, and he came against Judah. And he encamped against the fortified cities and planned to break them down for himself.

###### v2
When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and _that_ his face _was set_ for battle against Jerusalem,

###### v3
he took counsel with his commanders and his mighty warriors to block off the waters of the springs that _came_ from outside the city, and they helped him.

###### v4
Then many people were gathered, and they blocked off all the springs and the river that flowed through the midst of the land, saying, "Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water?"

###### v5
Then he strengthened himself and built up all the walls that were broken down, and raised towers upon _them_ and another wall _outside_. ^[Literally "toward the street"] And he strengthened the Millo of the city of David and made much weaponry and small shields.

###### v6
And he appointed commanders for battle over the people and gathered them to himself into the public square of the gate of the city. And he spoke to their hearts, saying,

###### v7
"Be strong! Be courageous! Do not fear and do not be dismayed before the king of Assyria and before all the crowd that _is_ with him, for _there are_ more with us than with him.

###### v8
With him _is_ the arm of flesh, and with us _is_ Yahweh our God, to help us and to fight our battles." And the people took confidence with the words of Hezekiah, king of Judah.

###### v9
After this Sennacherib the king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem (now he and all his armies with him _were_ against Lachish) to Hezekiah king of Judah and to all of Judah that _was_ in Jerusalem, saying,

###### v10
"Thus says Sennacherib the king of Assyria: 'On what _are_ you relying that _you are_ dwelling in siege works in Jerusalem?

###### v11
Is not Hezekiah urging you to give you _up_ to die by starvation and thirst, saying, "Yahweh our God will save us from the hand of the king of Assyria"?

###### v12
Has not Hezekiah himself removed his high places and his altars and said to Judah and to Jerusalem, saying, "You must bow down before one altar and upon it you must make offerings"?

###### v13
Do you not know what I have done, I and my ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] to all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of all the lands at all able to save their land from my hand?

###### v14
Who among all the gods of those nations whom my ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] utterly destroyed was able to save his people from my hand, that your God will be able to save you from my hand?

###### v15
So now, do not let Hezekiah deceive you. Do not let him urge you according to this. Do not put trust in him, for no god of any nation and kingdom has been able to save his people from my hand and from the hand of my ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"] Surely then your God will not save you from my hand!'"

###### v16
And still more his servants said against Yahweh God and against Hezekiah his servant.

###### v17
And he wrote letters to treat Yahweh the God of Israel with contempt and spoke against him, saying, "As the gods of the nations of the earth who did not save their people from my hand, so likewise the God of Hezekiah will not save his people from my hand."

###### v18
Then they called with a great voice in Judean to the people of Jerusalem who _were_ upon the wall to frighten them and terrify them, so that they could take the city captive.

###### v19
And they spoke about the God of Jerusalem as about the gods of the peoples of the earth, the works of the hands of humankind.

###### v20
Then King Hezekiah and Isaiah the son of Amoz, the prophet, prayed concerning this. And they cried to the heavens.

###### v21
Then Yahweh sent an angel, and he destroyed every mighty warrior of strength, commander, and officer in the camp of the king of Assyria. And he returned with shamed face to his land and went into the house of his god. And some of the offspring of his loins fell upon him there with the sword.

###### v22
So Yahweh saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib, king of Assyria, and from the all _their enemies_, and gave them rest all around.

###### v23
And many brought tribute to Yahweh, to Jerusalem, and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was exalted in the eyes of all the nations thereafter.

###### v24
In those days Hezekiah fell ill unto death, and he prayed to Yahweh. And he answered him and gave him a sign.

###### v25
But Hezekiah did not reciprocate according to the benefit _placed_ upon him, because his heart became proud. So wrath was upon him and upon Judah and Jerusalem.

###### v26
But Hezekiah humbled himself with respect to the arrogance of his heart, he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of Yahweh did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.

###### v27
And Hezekiah had very much wealth and honor, and he made storehouses for himself for silver, gold, precious stones, spices, small shields, and all _sorts of_ desirable objects;

###### v28
and storage buildings for the yield of grain, new wine, and olive oil; and animal stalls for all _kinds of_ animals, and animals and herds for animal stalls.

###### v29
And he made cities for himself, and livestock of sheep and abundant cattle, for God had given to him very abundant possessions.

###### v30
And this same Hezekiah blocked off the flow of the waters of the upper Gihon, and directed them down the west _side_ of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.

###### v31
And thus _in the matter of_ the envoys of the commanders of Babylon who had been sent to him to seek the sign that had happened in the land, God forsook him, to test him _and_ to know all _that was_ in his heart.

###### v32
Now the remainder of the words of Hezekiah and his loyal love, behold, they are written in the visions of Isaiah the son of Amoz, the prophet, upon the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel.

###### v33
And Hezekiah slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in the upper _part_ of the burial sites of the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of David. And all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honor at his death. And Manasseh his son became king in his place.