---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 4
---

[[2 Chr-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And he made an altar of bronze, twenty cubits _was_ its length, and twenty cubits _was_ its width, and ten cubits _was_ its height.

###### v2
Then he made the sea of molten metal, from brim to brim _it was_ ten cubits, completely round. And _it was_ five cubits in height, and _its circumference measured_ ^[Literally "and it measured a line all around it"] thirty cubits.

###### v3
Under it _were_ figures of oxen all around it, ten cubits _high_, encircling the sea all around. The oxen _were_ in two rows _cast as one piece with it_. ^[Literally "molten with its casting"]

###### v4
_It was_ standing upon twelve oxen, three facing north, and three facing west, and three facing south, and three facing east. The sea _was set_ upon them from above, and all their hindquarters _faced_ _inward_. ^[Literally "into the house"]

###### v5
And its thickness _was_ a handbreadth, and its brim _was_ like the working of the lip of a cup, the blossom of a lily. And it held three thousand baths.

###### v6
And he made ten basins. And he set five on the south and five on the north in which to wash; they washed off the work of the burnt offering in them, but the sea _was_ for the priests to wash therein.

###### v7
And he made ten golden lampstands according to their custom, and he set _them_ in the temple, five on the south and five on the north.

###### v8
And he made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the south and five on the north. And he made a hundred drinking bowls of gold.

###### v9
And he made the courtyard of the priests and the great outer courtyard and the doors for the outer court. And he overlaid their doors with bronze.

###### v10
And he set the sea at the southeast _corner of the temple_.

###### v11
And Huram ^[This is the spelling in Hebrew, though many translations have "Hiram"] made the pots, the shovels, and the drinking bowls. So Hiram ^[The spelling ("Hiram") is different here than in the previous occurrences] finished making the work that he made on the house of God for King Solomon:

###### v12
the two columns, the bowls, and the two capitals on top of the columns, and the two latticeworks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that _were_ on top of the columns,

###### v13
and the four hundred pomegranates for the two latticeworks, two rows of pomegranates for the latticework, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that _were_ before the columns.

###### v14
And he made the water carts, and he made the basins on the water carts,

###### v15
and the one sea and the twelve oxen underneath it.

###### v16
And Huram-abi made for King Solomon the pots, the shovels, the three-pronged meat forks, and all the utensils of polished bronze for the house of Yahweh.

###### v17
The king cast them in the plain of the Jordan, in the clay soil between Succoth and Zeredah.

###### v18
Solomon made all these utensils in great abundance, for the weight of the bronze could not be determined.

###### v19
So Solomon made all the objects that _were in_ the house of God: the altar of gold; the tables upon which _was_ the bread of the presence;

###### v20
the lampstands, and the lamps for burning according to the custom before the inner sanctuary, of solid gold;

###### v21
and the blossoms, the lamps, and the tongs that _were_ of solid gold;

###### v22
and the snuffers, the drinking bowls, the dishes, and the firepans, of solid gold; and the entrance to the house, the inner doors to _the most holy place_, and the doors to the house of the temple _were_ of gold.