---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 3
---

[[2 Chr-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Solomon began to build the house of Yahweh in Jerusalem, on Mount Moriah, where Yahweh had appeared to David his father, at the place that David had established, on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.

###### v2
And he began to build in the second month of the fourth year of his reign.

###### v3
Now these _were_ the measurements of Solomon for building the house of God: the length in cubits by the former measurement _was_ sixty cubits, and the width _was_ twenty cubits.

###### v4
_The length of the portico that _was_ in front was the same as the front of the width of the house_: ^[Literally "The length at the front of the portico the front of the width of the house"] twenty cubits. And its height _was_ one hundred and twenty cubits. And he overlaid it on the inside with pure gold.

###### v5
And the great house _itself_ he covered with cypress wood, then he overlaid it with pure gold. And he put on it palm tree _images_ and _ornate_ chains.

###### v6
Then he overlaid the house with precious stone as decoration. (Now the gold _was_ the gold of Parvaim.)

###### v7
And he overlaid the house with gold--the beams, the thresholds, the walls, and the doors. And he carved cherubim upon the walls.

###### v8
Then he made _the most holy place_. ^[Literally "the house of the holy of the holies"] Its length _was equal to_ ^[Literally "at the front of"] the width of the house: twenty cubits. And its breadth _was_ twenty cubits. And he overlaid it with six hundred talents of fine gold.

###### v9
And the weight for the nails _was_ fifty shekels of gold. And he overlaid its upper rooms with gold.

###### v10
And he made two sculpted wood cherubim in _the most holy place_, ^[Literally "the house of the holy of the holies"] and he overlaid them with gold.

###### v11
The length of the _outstretched_ wings of the cherubim _were_ twenty cubits; one wing of five cubits touched the wall of the house, and the other wing of five cubits _was_ touching the _outstretched_ wing of the other cherub.

###### v12
And the wing of five cubits of the other cherub _was_ touching the wall of the house, and its other wing five cubits long touching the wing of the first ^[Or "other"] cherub.

###### v13
The wings of these cherubim extended twenty cubits, and they were standing on their feet, their faces toward the house.

###### v14
And he made the curtain of blue and purple and crimson and fine linen, and put cherubim on it.

###### v15
And at the front of the house he made two columns, thirty-five cubits high, and the capital on their top was five cubits.

###### v16
And he made _decorative_ chains in the inner sanctuary and put _them_ on top of the columns. And he made one hundred pomegranate _ornaments_, and put them on the chains.

###### v17
And he erected the columns in front of the temple, one on the south and one on the north. He called the name of the southern one Jakin, and the name of the northern one Boaz.