---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 16
---

[[2 Chr-15|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-17|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the thirty-sixth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha the king of Israel went up against Judah. And he built Ramah in order not to allow _anyone_ to go out or come in to Asa, king of Judah.

###### v2
Then Asa brought out silver and gold from the storehouses of the house of Yahweh and the house of the king, and he sent _them_ to Ben-Hadad, king of Aram, ^[Or "Syria"] who lived in Damascus, saying,

###### v3
"_There is_ a covenant between me and you, _as there was_ between my father and your father. Look, I am sending you silver and gold. Go, break your covenant with Baasha, king of Israel, that he might withdraw from me."

###### v4
And Ben-Hadad listened to King Asa, and he sent commanders of his troops that _were_ with him against the cities of Israel. And they struck Ijon, Dan, Abel-Maim, and all the storage cities of Naphtali.

###### v5
And it happened _that_ when Baasha heard _this_, he stopped building Ramah and ceased his work.

###### v6
Then King Asa took all of Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had been building, and he built Geba and Mizpah with them.

###### v7
And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, "On account of your reliance upon the king of Aram, ^[Or "Syria"] and _since_ you did not rely on Yahweh your God, therefore the troops of the king of Aram ^[Or "Syria"] escaped from your hand.

###### v8
Were not the Cushites and Libyans a mighty army with very abundant chariots and horsemen? And because of your reliance on Yahweh he gave them into your hand.

###### v9
For the eyes of Yahweh roam throughout all the earth to strengthen those whose heart is fully devoted to him. You have been foolish in this, for from now on you will have wars."

###### v10
Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in _the prison_, ^[Literally "the house of the stocks"] for he was enraged with him concerning this. And Asa oppressed some of the people at that time.

###### v11
Now behold, the words of Asa _from_ the first to the last, behold, they are written in the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel.

###### v12
And in the thirty-ninth year of his reign, he fell _severely_ ^[Literally "until his illness unto severity"] ill in his feet. But even in his illness he did not seek Yahweh, but _only_ among the healers.

###### v13
And Asa slept with his ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"] And he died in the forty-first year of his reign.

###### v14
And they buried him in his burial site, which had been cut out for him in the city of David. And they laid him on the bier which they had filled with all kinds of spices made _by_ the perfumers as a fragment ointment. And they made a great fire in his honor.