---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 26
---

[[2 Chr-25|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-27|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah (now he _was_ sixteen years old) and made him king in the place of his father Amaziah.

###### v2
He built Elath and returned it to Judah after the king slept with his ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v3
Uzziah _was_ sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem fifty-two years. And the name of his mother _was_ Yecoliah of Jerusalem.

###### v4
And he did what _was_ right in the eyes of Yahweh, according to all that Amaziah his father had done.

###### v5
And he began to seek ^[Or "was seeking"] God in the days of Zechariah who was teaching in visions of God. And _whenever_ ^[Literally "in the days"] he sought Yahweh God made him have success.

###### v6
And he went out and made war against the Philistines, and he broke down the wall of Gath and the wall of Jabneh and the wall of Ashdod, and he built cities in Ashdod and among the Philistines.

###### v7
And God helped him against the Philistines and against the Arabs who were living in Gur-Baal and Meunim.

###### v8
And the Ammonites gave tribute to Uzziah, and his fame ^[Or "name"] went out to the boundary ^[Literally "to coming in"] of Egypt, for he became _very strong_. ^[Literally "to above"]

###### v9
And Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, at the Valley Gate, and at the Angle, and he strengthened them.

###### v10
And he built towers in the desert and hewed many cisterns, for he had much livestock, both in the Shephelah and on the plain, _along with_ farmers and vinedressers in the hills and in the fertile lands, for he loved the soil.

###### v11
And Uzziah had troops _trained and ready for war_ ^[Literally "making war, going out to fight"] in divisions according to the number of their enrollment at the hand of Jeuel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah of the king's commanders.

###### v12
The whole number of the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] for mighty warriors of strength _was_ two thousand six hundred.

###### v13
And under their hand _were_ army troops _numbering_ three hundred and seven thousand five hundred who could make war with power and strength to help the king against an enemy.

###### v14
And Uzziah prepared small shields, spears, helmets, breastplates, bows, and slingstones for the whole army.

###### v15
And he made siege machines in Jerusalem designed _by_ skillful men to be _set_ upon the towers and upon the corners to shoot arrows and large slingstones. And his fame ^[Or "name"] went out far, for he helped marvelously, for he was strong.

###### v16
But on account of his strength his heart grew proud unto destruction. And he acted unfaithfully against Yahweh his God and went into the temple of Yahweh to offer an incense offering on the altar.

###### v17
And Azariah the priest, along with eighty strong priests with him, went in after him.

###### v18
And they stood against King Uzziah and said to him, "It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to Yahweh, but _it is_ for the priests, the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense. Go out of the sanctuary, for you have acted unfaithfully. There will be no honor for you from Yahweh God."

###### v19
Then Uzziah, his censer in hand to burn incense, became angry. And when he became angry with the priests, then leprosy appeared on his forehead in front of the priests in the house of Yahweh at the altar of incense.

###### v20
When Azariah the chief priest and all the priests turned to him, behold, he _was_ leprous in the forehead. So they rushed him away from there, and he also hastened to go out, for Yahweh had smitten him.

###### v21
So King Uzziah was leprous until the day of his death, and he lived in a separate house as a leper, for he was cut off from the house of Yahweh. And Jotham his son _was_ over the house of the king, judging the people of the land.

###### v22
Now the remainder of the words of Uzziah, _from_ the first _to_ the last, Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, wrote _them_.

###### v23
And Uzziah slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the burial field which belonged to the kings, because, they said, "He _was_ leprous." And Jotham his son reigned in his place.