---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 20
---

[[2 Chr-19|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-21|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And it happened _that_ afterward, the _Moabites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Moab"] the _Ammonites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and some of the Meunites ^[The Hebrew term is difficult; it may also mean "Ammonim"] came against Jehoshaphat for war.

###### v2
And they came and reported _it_ to Jehoshaphat, saying, "A great multitude from beyond the sea, from Aram, ^[Or "Syria"] is coming against you. Now behold, _they are_ in Hazazon Tamar" (that _is_, En Gedi).

###### v3
Then Jehoshaphat was afraid and set his face to seek Yahweh. And he called for a fast through all Judah.

###### v4
And Judah assembled to seek after Yahweh; even from all the cities of Judah they came to seek Yahweh.

###### v5
Then Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem in the house of Yahweh before the new courtyard.

###### v6
And he said, "O Yahweh, God of our ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] are you not God in heaven? Now you rule in all the kingdoms of the nations, and in your hand _are_ power and might, and there is none _who can_ resist against you.

###### v7
O, our God, did you yourself not drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel and give it to the descendants ^[Or "seed"] of Abraham your friend forever?

###### v8
And they lived in it and built for you a sanctuary for your name in it, saying,

###### v9
'If disaster, a sword, punishment, disease, or famine come upon us, we shall stand before this house and before you--for your name _is_ in this house--and cry out to you out of our trouble, then you will hear and save _us_.'

###### v10
And now, look, the people ^[Or "sons"] of Moab and Ammon and Mount Seir whom you did not allow Israel to come against when they came from Egypt, from whom they turned aside and did not destroy,

###### v11
now behold, they are rewarding us by coming to dispossess us from your possession which you gave us as an inheritance.

###### v12
O our God, will you not judge them, for there is no power in us before this great multitude that is coming against us. Now we do not know what we shall do, for our eyes _are_ upon you."

###### v13
And all Judah was standing before Yahweh, _and_ also their little children, their wives, and their children.

###### v14
Then the Spirit of Yahweh came upon Jahaziel, the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite from the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly.

###### v15
And he said, "Listen, all Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat, thus says Yahweh to you: 'Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed before this great multitude, for the battle is not yours, but God's.

###### v16
Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they are coming up the ascent of Ziz. And you will find them at the end of the valley facing the desert of Jeruel.

###### v17
_There will be_ no _need_ for you to fight in this _battle_. Take your stand! Stand and see the deliverance of Yahweh among you, O Judah and Jerusalem! Do not fear and do not be dismayed. Tomorrow go out before them and Yahweh _will be_ with you.'"

###### v18
Then Jehoshaphat bowed his face ^[Literally "nostrils"] down to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before Yahweh to worship Yahweh.

###### v19
Then the Levites, from the _Kohathites_ ^[Literally "sons of the Kohathites"] and from the _Korahites_ ^[Literally "sons of the Korahites"] stood up to praise Yahweh the God of Israel with an exceedingly ^[Literally "above"] loud voice.

###### v20
And they rose up early in the morning and went out to the desert of Tekoa. And when they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, "Hear me, O Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in Yahweh your God, and you shall be established! Believe in his prophets, and you shall succeed!"

###### v21
And when he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed singers to Yahweh _who were_ giving praise to the splendor of _his_ holiness when they went out before the army. And they said, "Give thanks to Yahweh, for his loyal love _is_ everlasting!"

###### v22
And _when_ ^[Or "on time" or "at the time"] they began with singing and praise, Yahweh set ambushes against the people ^[Or "sons"] of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir who were coming against Judah. And they were defeated

###### v23
when the people ^[Or "sons"] of Ammon and Moab rose up against the inhabitants of Mount Seir to destroy and demolish _them_. And when the inhabitants of Seir had made an end of them, each helped to destroy his comrade.

###### v24
And Judah came against the watchtower of the wilderness. And they looked at the crowd, and behold, corpses were lying on the ground. There was none _who had_ escaped.

###### v25
When Jehoshaphat came with his people to plunder their booty, they found among them in abundance possessions, corpses, and precious items. And they took plunder for themselves _until they could carry no more_. ^[Literally "until not carrying"] And they were three days in plundering the booty, for it _was_ abundant.

###### v26
And on the fourth day, they assembled in the Valley of Berakah, for there they blessed Yahweh. Therefore the name of that place is called the Valley of Berakah up to this day.

###### v27
And all the men of Judah and Jerusalem returned, and Jehoshaphat _was_ at their head in returning to Jerusalem with joy, for Yahweh caused them to rejoice over their enemies.

###### v28
And they came to Jerusalem with harps, stringed instruments, and trumpets to the house of Yahweh.

###### v29
And the fear of God came upon all the kingdoms of the earth when they heard that Yahweh had fought against the enemies of Israel.

###### v30
So the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was at rest, since his God gave rest to him all around.

###### v31
So Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. _He was_ thirty-five years old when he began to reign. And he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother _was_ Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi.

###### v32
And he walked in the way of his father Asa and did not turn aside from it, to do what was right in the eyes of Yahweh.

###### v33
Only the high places were not removed. The people still had not yet set their heart on the God of their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v34
Now the rest of the words of Jehoshaphat, _from_ the first to the last, behold, they _are_ written in the chronicles ^[Or "words"] of Jehu the son of Hanani, which _are_ recorded in the scroll of the kings of Israel.

###### v35
And afterward Jehoshaphat the king of Judah joined with Ahaziah the king of Israel, who acted wickedly.

###### v36
He joined with him to build ships to go to Tarshish. And they built the ships in Ezion Geber.

###### v37
Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, "Because of your joining with Ahaziah, Yahweh will break down your works." And the ships were destroyed and were not able to go to Tarshish.