---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 25
---

[[2 Chr-24|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-26|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Amaziah was twenty-five years old _when_ he became king. And he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother _was_ Jehoaddan from Jerusalem.

###### v2
And he did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, only not with a fully-devoted heart.

###### v3
And it happened _that_ as his reign was strengthened, he killed his servants who had killed his father the king.

###### v4
But he did not put their children to death, according to _what_ is written in the law, in the scroll of Moses, where Yahweh commanded, saying, "Fathers shall not be put to death on account of the sons, and the sons shall not be put to death on account of the fathers, but each shall be put to death for his own sin."

###### v5
Then Amaziah assembled _the men of_ Judah and set them by _families_ ^[Literally "_the_ house of the fathers"] under commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. And he counted them from twenty years old and upward, and found them _to be_ three hundred thousand chosen for going out to battle, able _with_ spear and shield.

###### v6
And he hired from Israel one hundred thousand strong, mighty warriors for one hundred talents.

###### v7
But a man of God came to him, saying, "O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for Yahweh is not with Israel, all the Ephraimites.

###### v8
But even still, you yourself go, do! Be strong for the battle _else_ God will make you stumble before the enemy! For there is power with God to help and to cause stumbling."

###### v9
And Amaziah said to the man of God, "Now what _should I_ do with the one hundred talents that I have given to the troops of Israel?" And the man of God said, "_Yahweh is able to give_ ^[Literally "There is to Yahweh to give"] to you more than this."

###### v10
Then Amaziah dismissed the troops that came to him from Ephraim to go to their home. ^[Or "their place"] And _they became very angry_ ^[Literally "their noses became very hot"] with Judah, and they returned to their home _in great anger_. ^[Literally "in hotness of nose"]

###### v11
Then Amaziah strengthened himself, and leading his army, he went _to_ the Valley of Salt. And he struck _down_ ten thousand men ^[Or "sons"] of Seir.

###### v12
Now the _troops_ ^[Literally "the sons of the troop"] captured ten thousand _others_ alive, and they brought them to the top of the rock and threw them from the top of the rock. So all of them were smashed _to pieces_.

###### v13
As for the _troops_ ^[Literally "sons of the troop"] Amaziah had sent back from going with him to war, they raided the cities of Judah from Samaria to Beth-Horon. And they struck _down_ three thousand of them and plundered much booty.

###### v14
And it happened _that_ after Amaziah came _back_ from killing the Edomites, he brought the gods of the sons of Seir, and he stood them up to himself as gods and bowed down before them and make smoke offerings for them.

###### v15
So _Yahweh became very angry_ ^[Literally "Yahweh's nose became very hot"] with Amaziah and sent a prophet to him, and he said to him, "Why have you sought the gods of the people who could not deliver their own people from your hand?"

###### v16
And it happened _that_ while he was speaking to him, he said to him, "Have we appointed you as a counselor to the king? Stop--_why should you be killed_?" ^[Literally "why shall he strike you?"] So the prophet stopped and said, "I know that God has determined to destroy you, because you have done this and have not listened to my advice."

###### v17
Then Amaziah king of Judah took counsel, and he sent to Joash the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, "Come, ^[This translation follows the _Qere_ reading] _let us face one another_. ^[Literally "let us look at faces"]

###### v18
And Joash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, "The thorn bush that _is_ in Lebanon has sent to the cedar which _is_ in Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son as wife.' But a wild animal of the field that _was_ in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thorn bush.

###### v19
Look, you say _that_ you have struck Edom, and your heart has lifted you up to boast. Now remain at your home. Why stir up disaster that you fall, you and Judah with you?"

###### v20
But Amaziah did not listen, for it _was_ from God that he might give them into the hand _of enemies_, because they sought the gods of Edom.

###### v21
So Joash the king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah the king of Judah _faced one another_ ^[Literally "looked at one another's faces"] at Beth-Shemesh, which belongs to Judah.

###### v22
And Judah was defeated before Israel, and each _man_ fled to his tent.

###### v23
And Joash the king of Israel captured Amaziah the king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-Shemesh. And they brought him _to_ Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits.

###### v24
Then with all the gold and silver, all the objects found in the house of God with Obed-Edom, the storehouses of the house of the king, and _the hostages_, ^[Literally "the sons of the pledges"] he returned to Samaria.

###### v25
And Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived after the death of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, the king of Israel, fifteen years.

###### v26
Now the remainder of the words of Amaziah, _from_ the first _to_ the last, behold, are they not written in the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel?

###### v27
And from the time that Amaziah turned away from Yahweh, they had plotted a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem. And he fled to Lachish, but they sent after him to Lachish and killed him there.

###### v28
And they carried him on the horses and buried him with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of Judah.