---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 9
---

[[2 Chr-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, and she came to Jerusalem to test Solomon with hard questions, with much wealth and camels, bearing spices and much gold and precious stones. And she came to Solomon and told him all that _was_ _on her mind_. ^[Literally "in her heart"]

###### v2
And Solomon _answered all her questions_. ^[Literally "made known to her all her words"] Not a word was hidden from Solomon that he did not answer for her.

###### v3
When the queen of Sheba saw the wisdom of Solomon and the house he had built,

###### v4
and the food of his table, and the position of his officers, the duty of his servants and their clothing, his cupbearers and their clothing, and his burnt offerings that he offered at the house of Yahweh, there was no longer any breath ^[Or "spirit"] in her.

###### v5
And she said to the king, "The word which I heard in my land concerning your words and your wisdom _is_ true,

###### v6
but I did not believe their words until I came and saw with my own eyes. And behold, half the greatness of your wisdom was not reported to me; you surpass the rumors that I had heard.

###### v7
Blessed _are_ your men, and blessed _are_ these your servants who stand before you regularly and hear your wisdom!

###### v8
Blessed be Yahweh your God who took delight in you, to put you on his throne as king for Yahweh your God! Because your God loved Israel, he established him forever and has put you over them as king to do justice and righteousness!"

###### v9
And she gave to the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold and a very great amount of spices and precious stones. And there were no spices such as those that the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.

###### v10
Moreover the servants of Hiram and the servants of Solomon who brought gold from Ophir brought algum wood and precious stones.

###### v11
And the king made steps for the house of Yahweh and the house of the king, and lyres and harps for the singers _from_ the algum wood. And there was not seen _anything_ like them before in the land of Judah.

###### v12
Now King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba every desired thing she asked, besides what she had brought to the king. Then she turned and went to her land, she and her servants.

###### v13
And it happened _that_ the weight of the gold that came to Solomon in one year _was_ six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold,

###### v14
besides the gold and silver the traders and merchants brought, and all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land brought.

###### v15
And King Solomon made two hundred shields of beaten gold; six hundred _shekels_ of beaten gold went into each shield.

###### v16
And _he made_ three hundred small shields of beaten gold; three hundred _shekels_ went into each small shield. And the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.

###### v17
And the king made a large ivory throne and overlaid it with pure gold.

###### v18
And the throne had six steps, and a footstool of gold _was_ attached to the throne. And _there were_ armrests _on each side_. ^[Literally "from this and from that"] And by _the seat_ ^[Literally "the place of sitting"] _were_ two lions standing beside the armrests.

###### v19
And twelve lions were standing there on _each_ of the six steps _on each end_. ^[Literally "from this and from that"] And there was nothing like _it_ made in all the kingdom.

###### v20
And all the drinking vessels of King Solomon _were_ of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon _were_ of pure gold. Silver was not valued as anything in the days of Solomon.

###### v21
For the ships of the king went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram. ^[This is the spelling in Hebrew, though many translations have "Hiram"] Once _every three years_ ^[Literally "for three years"] the ships of Tarshish came carrying gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.

###### v22
Thus King Solomon was greater than all the kings of the earth in wealth and wisdom.

###### v23
And all the kings of the earth sought the face of Solomon to hear his wisdom that God put in his heart.

###### v24
And each of them brought his gifts, objects of silver, objects of gold, cloaks, myrrh, spices, horses, and mules, _as_ an amount year by year.

###### v25
And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. And he stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.

###### v26
And he ruled over all the kings from the River ^[That is, the Euphrates] to the land of the Philistines, to the boundary of Egypt.

###### v27
And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and he made cedar as the sycamore trees that _are_ in the Shephelah for abundance.

###### v28
And the horses _were_ imported from Egypt and from all lands for Solomon.

###### v29
As for the remainder of the words of Solomon _from_ the first to the last, are they not written in the chronicles ^[Or "words"] of Nathan the prophet and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer, concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat?

###### v30
And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.

###### v31
And Solomon slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.