---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 1
---

[[2 Chr-02|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And Solomon the son of David strengthened himself concerning his kingdom, and Yahweh his God _was_ with him and made him exceedingly great.

###### v2
And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to all the leaders for all Israel, the heads of the _families_. ^[Literally "fathers"]

###### v3
And Solomon and the whole assembly with him went to the high place that _was_ at Gibeon, for the tent of assembly ^[Or "meeting"] of God that Moses the servant of Yahweh had made in the desert was there.

###### v4
(But the ark of God David had brought up from Kiriath-Jearim to _the place_ David had prepared for it, for David had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem.)

###### v5
And the bronze altar that Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made _was_ there before the tabernacle of Yahweh. And Solomon and the assembly sought it out.

###### v6
And Solomon went up there to the bronze altar before Yahweh, which _was_ at the tent of assembly, ^[Or "meeting"] and he offered upon it a thousand burnt offerings.

###### v7
On that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, "Ask what I shall give to you."

###### v8
Then Solomon said to God, "You yourself have shown steadfast ^[Or "great"] loyal love to David my father and have made me king in his place.

###### v9
Now, O Yahweh God, let your word to David my father be fulfilled, for you yourself have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth.

###### v10
Now, give to me wisdom and knowledge that I may go out and come in before this people, for who can judge this, your great people?"

###### v11
Then God said to Solomon, "Because this was with your heart and you did not ask for wealth, possessions, honor, and the lives of your enemies, and also did not ask for _long life_, ^[Literally "many days"] but have asked for wisdom and knowledge that you might judge my people over whom I have made you king,

###### v12
wisdom and knowledge is given to you. And I will _also_ give to you wealth, possessions, and honor, the like of which was not had by the kings who _were_ before you, nor will there be the like after you."

###### v13
So Solomon went from the high place which _was_ at Gibeon _to_ Jerusalem before the tent of assembly. ^[Or "meeting"] And he reigned over Israel.

###### v14
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen. And he had one thousand four hundred chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, and he placed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.

###### v15
And the king made silver and gold in Jerusalem like the stones. And he made cedar as abundant as the sycamore fig trees that _were_ in the Shephelah.

###### v16
And Solomon's horses _were_ imported from Egypt and from Kue. The traders of the king received _them_ from Kue at a price.

###### v17
They went up and exported a chariot from Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver and a horse for one hundred and fifty _shekels_. And _these were_ _likewise exported_ ^[Literally "likewise through their hand"] to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram. ^[Or "Syria"]