---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 35
---

[[2 Chr-34|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-36|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Josiah kept ^[Or "made"] the Passover to Yahweh in Jerusalem. And they slaughtered the Passover _sacrifice_ on the fourteenth day of the first month.

###### v2
And he set the priests at their posts and encouraged them in the service of the house of Yahweh.

###### v3
And he said to the Levites who _were_ teaching all Israel, who were sanctified to Yahweh, "Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David, king of Israel, built. There is no _need_ to carry it on _your_ shoulders. Now serve Yahweh your God and his people Israel.

###### v4
And prepare yourselves according to _your families_, ^[Literally "the house of your fathers"] according to your working groups, according to the decree ^[Or "writing"] of David king of Israel and according to the decree ^[Or "writing"] of Solomon his son.

###### v5
And stand in the sanctuary according to the clans of _your families_ ^[Literally "the house of your fathers"] for your brothers, the _lay people_, ^[Literally "sons of the people"] and a part of the _family_ ^[Literally "house of the father"] of the Levites.

###### v6
And slaughter the Passover _lamb_ and consecrate yourself and prepare for your brothers to do according to the word of Yahweh by the hand of Moses.

###### v7
Then Josiah provided for the _lay people_ ^[Literally "sons of the people"] sheep, lambs, and young goats, all for the Passover for all who were found _there_, to the sum of thirty thousand, along with three thousand bulls. These _were_ the possession of the king.

###### v8
And his officials contributed a freewill offering to the people, to the priests, and to the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, commanders of the house of God, gave to the priests two thousand six hundred Passover _lambs_ and three hundred bulls.

###### v9
Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jehozabad, commanders of the Levites, contributed to the Levites five thousand Passover _lambs_ and five hundred bulls.

###### v10
And when the work had been completed, the priests stood at their positions and the Levites in their working groups according to the command of the king.

###### v11
And they slaughtered the Passover _lamb_, and the priests sprinkled _the blood_ from their hand, and the Levites flayed _the sacrifices_.

###### v12
And they set aside the burnt offerings to give them to the clans of the _families_ ^[Literally "house of the fathers"] for the _lay people_, ^[Literally "sons of the people"] to offer to Yahweh according to what is written in the scroll of Moses. And thus they did with the bulls.

###### v13
Then they roasted the Passover _lamb_ in the fire according to the ordinance. And they boiled the holy offerings in pots, in kettles, and in dishes and brought it quickly to the _lay people_. ^[Literally "sons of the people"]

###### v14
And afterward they prepared for themselves and for the priests, since the priests, the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Aaron, _were busy_ with offering the burnt offerings and the fat until night. So the Levites prepared for themselves and for the priests, the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Aaron.

###### v15
And the singers, the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Asaph, _were_ at their stations according to the decree ^[Or "command"] of David and Asaph and Heman and Jeduthun, the seer of the king. And the gatekeepers _were_ at _each gate_. ^[Literally "gate to gate"] They did not need to depart from their service, for their brothers the Levites had made preparations for them.

###### v16
So all the service of Yahweh was prepared on that day to keep ^[Or "make"] the Passover and to sacrifice burnt offerings on the altar of Yahweh, according to the command of King Josiah.

###### v17
And the Israelites who were present kept ^[Or "made"] the Passover at that time, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days.

###### v18
And there was no Passover like it kept ^[Or "made"] in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet. And none of the kings of Israel kept ^[Or "made"] a Passover like that which Josiah and the priests and the Levites, and all of Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, kept. ^[Or "made"]

###### v19
In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah this Passover was kept. ^[Or "made"]

###### v20
After all of this that Josiah had prepared _for_ the temple, ^[Or "house"] Neco the king of Egypt went up to make war at Carchemish on the Euphrates, and Josiah went up to meet him.

###### v21
And he ^[That is, Neco] sent messengers to him, saying, "_What is there between us_, ^[Literally "What to me and to you"] O king of Judah? _I am_ not against you yourself this day, but against the house making war against me. And God has commanded me to make haste. Stop _opposing_ God, who _is_ with me that he will not destroy you."

###### v22
But Josiah did not turn his face from him, but he disguised himself to fight with him. He did not listen to the words of Neco from the mouth of God, and he went out to fight in the plain of Megiddo.

###### v23
And the archers shot King Josiah, and the king said to his servants, "Take me away, for I am badly wounded."

###### v24
So his servants took him out of the chariot and transported him in his second chariot and brought him to Jerusalem. And he died and was buried in the burial sites of his ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"] And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned over Josiah.

###### v25
And Jeremiah uttered a lament for Josiah, and all the male and female singers have spoken in their laments about Josiah to this day. And they made them a requirement in Israel, and behold, they are written in the laments.

###### v26
Now the remainder of the words of Josiah and his loyal love _for_ what is written in the law of Yahweh

###### v27
and his words, _from_ the first _to_ the last, behold, they are written in the scroll of the kings of Israel and Judah.