---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 18
---

[[2 Chr-17|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-19|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now Jehoshaphat had much wealth and honor, and he became son-in-law to Ahab.

###### v2
And _after some years_ ^[Literally "at the end of years"] he went down to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab slaughtered many sheep and cattle for him and for the people who _were_ with him, and urged him to go up against Ramoth-Gilead.

###### v3
And Ahab the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, "Will you go up with me to Ramoth-Gilead?" And he answered him, "I _am_ as you _are_, and my people _are_ as your people with you in war."

###### v4
Then Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Seek _first of all_ ^[Literally "as the day"] the word of Yahweh."

###### v5
Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets, four hundred men. And he said to them, "Shall we go to Ramoth-Gilead to battle, or shall we cease?" And they said, "Go up, since God will give _it_ into the hand of the king."

###### v6
Then Jehoshaphat said, "Is there not here another prophet of Yahweh that we might inquire of him?"

###### v7
Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "_There is_ yet one man by whom to seek Yahweh, but I hate him, because he never prophesies good concerning me, but _always_ ^[Literally "all his days"] disaster. He _is_ Micaiah the son of Imlah." Then Jehoshaphat said, "Let not the king say thus."

###### v8
Then the king of Israel called to a eunuch and said, "Quickly bring Micaiah the son of Imlah."

###### v9
Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were each sitting on his throne, clothed in robes. And they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying before them.

###### v10
And Zedekiah the son of Kenaanah made for himself horns of iron, and he said, "Thus says Yahweh: 'With these you will gore Aram ^[Or "Syria"] to their destruction.'"

###### v11
And all the prophets prophesied thus, saying, "Go up to Ramoth-Gilead and triumph! Yahweh will give it into the hand of the king."

###### v12
Then the messenger who went to call Micaiah said to him, "Behold, the words of the prophets _are_ good with one voice to the king. Please let your word be as one with them and speak good."

###### v13
But Micaiah said, "As Yahweh lives, only what my God has said, that will I speak."

###### v14
And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, "Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-Gilead to war or shall I cease?" And he said, "Go up and triumph! They shall be given into your hand."

###### v15
But the king said to him, "How many times shall I make you swear that you speak nothing except the truth in the name of Yahweh?"

###### v16
Then he said, "I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains like sheep that had no shepherd. And Yahweh said, 'These have no masters; let them return to his own house in peace.'"

###### v17
Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not say to you he would not prophesy good concerning me, but only disaster?"

###### v18
Then Micaiah said, "Therefore hear the word of Yahweh: I saw Yahweh sitting upon his throne with all the host of heaven standing on his right and on his left.

###### v19
And Yahweh said, 'Who will entice Ahab the king of Israel that he would go up and fall at Ramoth-Gilead?' And one said this, and another said that.

###### v20
Then a spirit came forth and stood before Yahweh and said, 'I will entice him.' Then Yahweh said to him, 'By what means?'

###### v21
Then he said, 'I will go forth and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' And he said, 'You will entice him and will also succeed. Go out and do so.'

###### v22
So now, behold, Yahweh has put a spirit of deception into the mouths of these your prophets. Yahweh has spoken disaster against you."

###### v23
Then Zedekiah the son of Kenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, "_Which way_ ^[Literally "Where is this the way"] did the Spirit of Yahweh come from me to speak to you?"

###### v24
Then Micaiah said, "Behold, you will see on that day when you go into a private room to hide yourself."

###### v25
Then the king of Israel said, "Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the commander of the city and to Jehoash the son of the king,

###### v26
and say, 'Thus says the king: "Put this one into the prison house, and let him eat _a meager ration of bread and water_ ^[Literally "bread a short ration and water a short ration"] until I return in peace."'"

###### v27
And Micaiah said, "If you surely return in peace Yahweh has not spoken with me." Then he said, "Hear, peoples, all of them!"

###### v28
Then the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up to Ramoth-Gilead.

###### v29
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you, wear your garments." So the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went to war.

###### v30
Now the king of Aram ^[Or "Syria"] had commanded the commanders of his chariots, ^[Hebrew "chariot"] saying, "Do not fight with the small _or_ the great, but only with the king of Israel."

###### v31
And it happened _that_ when the commanders of the chariots ^[Hebrew "chariot"] saw Jehoshaphat, then they said, "It _is_ the king of Israel!" And they turned against him to fight. Then Jehoshaphat cried out and Yahweh helped him. God drove them away from him.

###### v32
And it happened _that_ when the commanders of the chariots ^[Hebrew "chariot"] saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from following him.

###### v33
Now a certain man drew the bow _at random_ ^[Literally "in his innocence"] and struck the king of Israel between the soldering of _his_ breastplate armor. Then he said to the chariot driver, "_Turn around_; ^[Literally "Turn away your hand"] get me away from the _war_ camp, for I am wounded."

###### v34
And the battle went on that day, and the king of Israel was propped up in the chariot facing Aram ^[Or "Syria"] until the evening. And he died at the time of the going down of the sun.