---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 28
---

[[2 Chr-27|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-29|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Ahaz _was_ twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And he did not do what is right in the eyes of Yahweh like David his ancestor. ^[Or "father"]

###### v2
But he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel and also made molten idols for the Baals.

###### v3
And he himself burned incense in the valley of Ben-Hinnom and burned his sons in the fire, according to the detestable _practices_ of the nations whom Yahweh drove out before the Israelites.

###### v4
And he sacrificed and burned incense at the high places, on the hilltops, and under every flourishing tree.

###### v5
Then Yahweh his God gave him into the hand of the king of Aram ^[Or "Syria"] who defeated him and captured many captives from him and brought _them to_ Damascus. Moreover, he was also given into the hand of the king of Israel, and he defeated him by a great attack.

###### v6
And Pekah, the son of Remaliah, killed in one day one hundred and twenty thousand in Judah, all men of strength, because they forsook Yahweh the God of their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v7
And Zikri, a mighty warrior of Ephraim, killed Maaseiah the son of the king, Azrikam the commander of the house, and Elkanah the second to the king.

###### v8
And the Israelites captured two hundred thousand of their brothers, women, sons, and daughters. And they also plundered much booty from them and brought the booty to Samaria.

###### v9
Now a prophet of Yahweh was there; Oded _was_ his name. And he went out before the army that was coming to Samaria and said to them, "Look, _it is_ on account of the anger of Yahweh, the God of your ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] against Judah _that_ he gave them into your hands, and you killed them in a rage reaching to the heavens.

###### v10
So now, you yourselves plan to subdue people of Judah and Jerusalem as slaves and female servants for yourselves. _Is there not also guilt on your part_ ^[Literally "Is there not only you with yourselves guilt?"] against Yahweh your God?

###### v11
So now, listen to me and return the captives of your brothers whom you have taken captive, for the fierce anger of Yahweh _is_ against you."

###### v12
Then men from the heads of Ephraim--Azariah the son of Jehohanan, Berekiah the son of Meshillemoth, Hezekiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai--stood against those returning from the fight.

###### v13
And they said to them, "You shall not bring the captives here, for _it is_ as guilt _against_ Yahweh upon us. You yourselves plan to add to our sins and to our guilt, but our guilt is very great, and _there is_ great anger against Israel."

###### v14
So the soldiers left the captives and the plunder before the commanders and all the assembly.

###### v15
Then the men designated by name arose and took the captives and from the plunder clothed all their nakedness. So they clothed them, gave them sandals, gave them food to eat, gave them water to drink, anointed them, and guided them with the donkeys _provided_ for all those who stumbled, and brought them to Jericho, the city of the palm trees, next to their brothers. Then they returned to Samaria.

###### v16
At that time King Ahaz sent to the king of Assyria to help him,

###### v17
since again the Edomites came and struck against Judah and took captives.

###### v18
And the Philistines sent raids into the cities of the Shephelah and the Negeb of Judah. And they captured Beth-Shemesh, Aijalon, Gederoth, Socoh with its villages, Timnah with its villages, and Gimzo with its villages. And they settled there.

###### v19
For Yahweh subdued Judah for the sake of Ahaz, king of Israel, for he created disorder in Judah and acted unfaithfully against Yahweh.

###### v20
Then Tiglath-Pileser ^[The Hebrew reads "Tilgath-Pilneser"] the king of Assyria came against him and brought trouble for him, _instead of helping him_, ^[Literally "and did not strengthen him"]

###### v21
for Ahaz took a portion _from_ the house of Yahweh and the house of the king and the princes, and he gave _it_ to the king of Assyria, but it was no help to him.

###### v22
And in the time of his distress, King Ahaz continued to act unfaithfully against Yahweh.

###### v23
He sacrificed to the gods of Damascus that had defeated him and said, "Because the gods of the king of Aram ^[Or "Syria"] helped them, I will sacrifice to them so that they will help me." But they were _a disaster_ ^[Literally "a cause of stumbling"] to him and to all Israel.

###### v24
Then Ahaz gathered the objects of the house of God, and he cut the objects of the house of God to pieces. And he shut the doors of the house of Yahweh and made for himself altars in every corner of Jerusalem.

###### v25
And _in every city_ ^[Literally "in all city and city"] of Judah he made high places to burn incense to other gods, and he provoked Yahweh, the God of his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] to anger.

###### v26
Now the remainder of his words and all his ways, _from_ the first _to_ the last, behold, they are written upon the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel.

###### v27
And Ahaz slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in the city, in Jerusalem, for they did not bring him to the burial site of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son became king in his place.