---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 33
---

[[2 Chr-32|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-34|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Manasseh _was_ twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem.

###### v2
And he did evil in the eyes of Yahweh according to the detestable things of the nations whom Yahweh drove out before the _Israelites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"]

###### v3
And _he rebuilt_ ^[Literally "returned and built"] the high places that Hezekiah his father broke down, and he set up altars for the Baals, made Asherahs, and bowed down to the host of heaven and served them.

###### v4
And he built altars in the house of Yahweh, _of_ which Yahweh had said, "In Jerusalem my name shall be forever."

###### v5
And he built altars to all the host of heaven in the two courtyards of the house of Yahweh.

###### v6
And he himself burned his sons in the fire in the Valley of Ben-Hinnom. And he practiced sorcery and divination, and he engaged in witchcraft and dealt with mediums and spiritists. And he did much evil in the eyes of Yahweh, to provoke him to anger.

###### v7
And he placed the carved image of the idol that he had made in the house of God, _of_ which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, "In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever.

###### v8
And I will _never_ ^[Literally "not continue to"] remove the foot of Israel from upon the land that I appointed to your ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] if only you will take care to do all that I have commanded them, all the law, the regulations, and the judgments by the hand of Moses."

###### v9
And Manasseh seduced Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to do evil more than the nations that Yahweh destroyed before the _Israelites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"]

###### v10
And Yahweh spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they would not listen.

###### v11
So Yahweh brought the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria upon them, and they took Manasseh captive with hooks, and they bound him with bronze fetters and brought him to Babylon.

###### v12
And when he was in distress he entreated Yahweh his God and greatly humbled himself before the God of his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v13
and prayed to him. And God responded to him and heard his plea and let him return to Jerusalem to his kingdom. And Manasseh knew that Yahweh was God.

###### v14
Then afterward he built an outer wall for the city of David west of the Gihon in the valley, and for the entrance into the Gate of the Fishes. And it encircled the Ophel and raised it very high. Then he placed strong commanders in all the fortified cities of Judah.

###### v15
And he removed the foreign gods and the carved image from the house of Yahweh and all the altars which he built on the mountain of the house of Yahweh and in Jerusalem, and he threw them outside the city.

###### v16
And he restored the altar of Yahweh and offered sacrifices of peace offerings and thank offerings upon it. And he commanded Judah to serve Yahweh, the God of Israel.

###### v17
Nevertheless, the people offered at the high places, but only to Yahweh their God.

###### v18
Now the remainder of the words of Manasseh and his prayer to his God and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel, behold, they _are_ in the words of the kings of Israel.

###### v19
And his prayer, and _how_ he ^[That is, God] responded to him, all his sin and his unfaithful acts, and the places where he built the high places and set up Asherahs and idols before he humbled himself, behold, they are written in the words of the seers.

###### v20
And Manasseh slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in his house. And Amon his son became king in his place.

###### v21
Amon _was_ twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem.

###### v22
And he did what _was_ evil in the eyes of Yahweh as Manasseh his father had done. And Amon sacrificed to all the idols that Manasseh his father had made, and he served them.

###### v23
And he did not humble himself before Yahweh, as Manasseh his father humbled himself, but Amon himself multiplied _his_ guilt.

###### v24
And his servants conspired against him and killed him in his house.

###### v25
But the people of the land struck down all who conspired against King Amon. And the people of the land made his son Josiah king in his place.