---
aliases:
  - 2 Chronicles 13
---

[[2 Chr-12|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Chr-14|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, Abijah reigned over Judah.

###### v2
He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother _was_ Micaiah the daughter of Uriel from Gibeah.
Now there was war between Abijah and between Jeroboam.

###### v3
And Abijah joined in the battle with an army of four hundred thousand _battle-hardened warriors_, ^[Literally "mighty warriors of battle"] chosen men, and Jeroboam put the battle in order against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, an army of mighty warriors.

###### v4
Then Abijah stood up on top of Mount Zemaraim that _is_ in the hill country of Ephraim and said, "Hear me, O Jeroboam and all Israel!

###### v5
Do you not all know that Yahweh the God of Israel gave the kingdom to David over Israel forever, to him and to his sons _by_ a covenant of salt?

###### v6
But Jeroboam the son of Nebat, a servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up and rebelled against his master,

###### v7
and worthless men, _sons of wickedness_, ^[Literally "sons of Belial"] were gathered about him and became hostile against Rehoboam the son of Solomon, when Rehoboam was a boy and gentle of heart and was not strong enough _to stand_ before them.

###### v8
So now you yourselves are considering _that you are_ strong before the kingdom of Yahweh _which is_ in the hand the sons of David, since you yourselves are a great multitude and you have bull calves of gold that Jeroboam has made for idols.

###### v9
Did you not drive out the priests of Yahweh, the sons of Aaron, the Levites? Have you _not_ made for yourselves priests like all the peoples of the lands? All who come _to be consecrated for priestly service_ ^[Literally "to fill his hand" (a Hebrew idiom for ordination)] with a young bull or seven rams becomes a priest of _what is_ not a god.

###### v10
But as for us, Yahweh _is_ our God, and we have not forsaken him. The priests serving Yahweh _are_ the sons of Aaron, the Levites, according to their service.

###### v11
They offer burnt offerings to Yahweh _every morning_ ^[Literally "in the morning, in the morning"] and _every evening_, ^[Literally "in the evening, in the evening"] sweet spices of incense, and the rows of bread upon the pure table. And the golden lampstand with its lamps _they_ keep kindled _every evening_, ^[Literally "in the evening, in the evening"] for we are keeping the requirement of Yahweh our God, but you yourselves have forsaken him.

###### v12
And look, God _is_ with us at the head, and his priests _have_ the trumpets for sounding blasts against you, O sons of Israel. Do not fight against Yahweh, the God of your ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] for you will not succeed."

###### v13
Then Jeroboam sent around an ambush to come behind them. So they were in front of Judah, but the ambush _was_ behind them.

###### v14
When Judah turned, then behold, the battle against them _was_ in front and behind, and they cried to Yahweh, and the priests blew on the trumpets.

###### v15
Then the men of Judah shouted, and it happened _that_ when the men of Judah were shouting, then God defeated Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.

###### v16
And the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] fled from before Judah, and God gave them into their hand.

###### v17
And Abijah and his people struck a great blow against them, and the dead from Israel _that_ fell _were_ five hundred thousand chosen men.

###### v18
And the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] were subdued at that time, and the people ^[Or "sons"] of Judah were victorious, for they relied upon Yahweh the God of their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v19
And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam and took cities from him: Bethel with its villages, Jeshanah with its villages, and Ephron with its villages.

###### v20
And Jeroboam did not regain strength again in the days of Abijah. And Yahweh plagued him and he died.

###### v21
But Abijah became strong, and he took to himself fourteen wives and fathered twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters.

###### v22
Now the rest of the words of Abijah and his ways and his words are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.