---
aliases:
  - 2 Timothy 1
---

[[2 Tim-02|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, according to the promise of life which _is_ in Christ Jesus,

###### v2
to Timothy, _my_ dear child. Grace, mercy, _and_ peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.

###### v3
_I am thankful_ ^[Literally "I have thankfulness"] to God, whom I have served with a clear conscience _as my ancestors did_ ^[Literally "from ancestors"], when _I remember you constantly_ ^[Literally "I have remembrance concerning you constantly"] in my prayers night and day,

###### v4
longing to see you _as I_ ^[Here "_as_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("remember") which is understood as temporal] remember your tears, so that I may be filled with joy,

###### v5
_remembering the_ ^[Literally "receiving a remembrance of the"] sincere faith in you, which lived first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am convinced that _is_ in you also,

###### v6
for which reason I remind you to rekindle the gift of God that is in you through the laying on of my hands.

###### v7
For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power and love and self-discipline.

###### v8
Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor me his prisoner, but suffer along with _me_ for the gospel, according to the power of God,

###### v9
who saved us and called _us_ with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to his own purpose and grace that was given to us in Christ Jesus _before time began_ ^[Literally "before times eternal"],

###### v10
but has now been disclosed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, ^[Some manuscripts have "our Savior Christ Jesus"] who has abolished death and brought to light life and immortality through the gospel,

###### v11
for which I was appointed a proclaimer and an apostle and a teacher,

###### v12
for which reason also I suffer these _things_. But _I am_ not ashamed, because I know in whom I have believed, and I am convinced that he is able to guard _what_ I have entrusted until that day.

###### v13
Hold fast to the pattern of sound words which you heard from me, in the faith and love _that are_ in Christ Jesus.

###### v14
Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who lives in us.

###### v15
You know this, that all those in Asia turned away from me, among whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.

###### v16
May the Lord grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, because he refreshed me many times, and was not ashamed of my imprisonment,

###### v17
but _when he_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was") which is understood as temporal] was in Rome, he diligently sought me and found _me_.

###### v18
May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord in that day! And how much he served _me_ in Ephesus you know very well.