---
aliases:
  - 2 Timothy 4
---

[[2 Tim-03|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
I solemnly charge _you_ before God and Christ Jesus, who is going to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom,

###### v2
preach the word, be ready in season _and_ out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all patience and instruction.

###### v3
For there will be a time when they will not put up with sound teaching, but in accordance with their own desires, they will accumulate for themselves teachers, _because they have an insatiable curiosity_ ^[Literally "feeling an itching in the ear"; "because" is supplied as a component of the participle ("feeling an itching") which is understood as causal],

###### v4
and they will turn away from the hearing of the truth, but will turn to myths.

###### v5
But you, be self-controlled in all _things_, bear hardship patiently, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.

###### v6
For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is imminent.

###### v7
I have fought the good fight, I have completed the race, I have kept the faith.

###### v8
Finally, the crown of righteousness is reserved for me, that the Lord, the righteous Judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearing.

###### v9
Make haste to come to me quickly.

###### v10
For Demas deserted me, _because he_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("loved") which is understood as causal] loved the present age, and went to Thessalonica. Crescens _went_ to Galatia; Titus _went_ to Dalmatia.

###### v11
Luke alone is with me. Take along Mark _and_ ^[Here "_and_" is supplied because the previous participle ("take along") has been translated as a finite verb] bring _him_ with you, because he is useful to me for ministry.

###### v12
But I have sent Tychicus to Ephesus.

###### v13
_When you_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("come") which is understood as temporal] come, bring the cloak that I left behind in Troas with Carpus, and the scrolls, especially the parchments.

###### v14
Alexander the metalworker did me much harm; may the Lord pay back to him according to his deeds,

###### v15
against whom you also be on guard, because he vehemently opposed our words.

###### v16
At my first defense, no one came to my _aid_, but _they_ all deserted me; may it not be counted against them.

###### v17
But the Lord helped me and strengthened me, so that through me the proclamation might be fulfilled and all the Gentiles might hear, and he rescued _me_ from the lion's mouth.

###### v18
The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed, and will save _me_ for his heavenly kingdom, to whom _be_ the glory _forever and ever_ ^[Literally "to the ages of the ages"]. Amen.

###### v19
Greet Prisca and Aquila and the household of Onesiphorus.

###### v20
Erastus remained in Corinth, but Trophimus I left behind in Miletus _because he_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was sick") which is understood as causal] was sick.

###### v21
Make haste to come before winter. Eubulus and Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brothers greet you.

###### v22
The Lord _be_ with your spirit. Grace _be_ with you.