---
aliases:
  - 2 Timothy 3
---

[[2 Tim-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Tim-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
But know this, that in the last days difficult times will come,

###### v2
for people will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boasters, arrogant, slanderers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy,

###### v3
hardhearted, irreconcilable, slanderous, without self-control, savage, with no interest for what is good,

###### v4
traitors, reckless, conceited, loving pleasure rather than loving God,

###### v5
maintaining a form of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid these _people_.

###### v6
For from these are those who slip into houses and captivate foolish women loaded down with sins, led by various kinds of desires,

###### v7
always learning and never able to come to a knowledge of the truth.

###### v8
And _just as_ ^[Literally "in the manner in which"] Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so also these oppose the truth, people corrupted in mind, disqualified concerning the faith.

###### v9
But they will not progress to a greater extent, for their folly will be quite evident to everyone, as also the _folly_ of those _two_ was.

###### v10
But you have faithfully followed my teaching, way of life, purpose, faith, patience, love, endurance,

###### v11
persecutions, _and_ sufferings that happened to me in Antioch, in Iconium, _and_ in Lystra, what sort of persecutions I endured, and the Lord delivered me from all _of them_.

###### v12
And indeed, all those who want to live in a godly manner in Christ Jesus will be persecuted.

###### v13
But evil people and imposters will progress to the worse, deceiving and being deceived.

###### v14
But you continue in _the things_ which you have learned and are convinced _of_, _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("know") which is understood as causal] know from whom you learned _them_,

###### v15
and that from childhood you have known the holy writings that are able _to make_ you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.

###### v16
All scripture _is_ inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness,

###### v17
in order that the person of God may be competent, equipped for every good work.