---
aliases:
  - 2 Timothy 2
---

[[2 Tim-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Tim-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
You, therefore, my child, be strong in the grace _that is_ in Christ Jesus,

###### v2
and _the things_ which you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust these _things_ to faithful people who will be competent to teach others also.

###### v3
Suffer together with _me_ as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.

###### v4
No one who serves as a soldier is entangled in the activities of _everyday_ life, so that he may please the one who enlisted _him_.

###### v5
And also if anyone competes he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.

###### v6
The farmer who works hard must _be_ the first to receive a share of the crops.

###### v7
Consider what I am saying, for the Lord will grant you understanding in all _these things_.

###### v8
Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, a descendant of David according to my gospel,

###### v9
in connection with which I suffer misfortune to the point of _imprisonment_ ^[Literally "bonds"] as a criminal, but the word of God is not bound.

###### v10
Because of this, I endure all _things_ for the sake of the chosen, in order that they also may obtain salvation _which is_ in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.

###### v11
The saying _is_ trustworthy:
For if we died with _him_, we will also live with _him_;

###### v12
if we endure, we will also reign with _him_;
if we deny _him_, he also will deny us;

###### v13
if we are unfaithful, he remains faithful--_he cannot deny himself_ ^[Literally "he is not able to deny himself"]. ^[Some manuscripts have "because he is not able to deny himself"]

###### v14
Remind _people_ of these _things_, solemnly urging _them_ before the Lord ^[Some manuscripts have "before God"] not to dispute about words. _This is_ in no way beneficial _and leads to_ the ruin of the hearers.

###### v15
Make every effort to present yourself approved to God, a worker having no need to be ashamed, guiding the word of truth along a straight path.

###### v16
But avoid pointless chatter, for it will progress to greater ungodliness,

###### v17
and their message _will spread_ ^[Literally "will experience spreading"] like gangrene, among whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,

###### v18
who have deviated concerning the truth _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("saying") which is understood as means] saying the resurrection has already taken place, and they are upsetting the faith of some.

###### v19
However, the solid foundation of God stands firm, having this seal: "The Lord knows those who are his," ^[A quotation from [[Num-16#v5|Num 16:5]]] and "Everyone who names the name of the Lord must abstain from unrighteousness."

###### v20
Now in a great house _there_ are not only gold and silver vessels, but also wooden and earthenware _ones_, some of which _are_ for honorable use, and some of which _are_ for ordinary use.

###### v21
Therefore, if someone cleanses himself from these _things_, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart, useful to the Master, prepared for every good work.

###### v22
But flee from youthful desires, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, _and_ peace, in company with those who call upon the Lord from a pure heart.

###### v23
But avoid foolish and uninformed controversies, _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("know") which is understood as causal] know that they produce quarrels.

###### v24
And the slave of the Lord must not quarrel, but be kind toward everyone, skillful in teaching, tolerant,

###### v25
correcting those who are opposed with gentleness, _seeing_ whether perhaps God may grant them repentance to a knowledge of the truth,

###### v26
and they will come to their senses again _and escape_ from the trap of the devil, being held captive by him to _do_ his will.