---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 4
---

[[1 Sam-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to meet _the_ Philistines for battle, and they encamped at Ebenezer, and _the_ Philistines encamped at Aphek.

###### v2
_The_ Philistines lined up for the battle to meet Israel, and the battle was prolonged ^[Or "drawn out"] until Israel was defeated before _the_ Philistines, _who_ ^[Literally "and they"] killed about four thousand men _on the battlefield_. ^[Literally "in the battle line in the field"]

###### v3
When the army ^[Or "people"] came _back_ to the camp, the elders of Israel asked, "Why has Yahweh defeated us today before _the_ Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to us from Shiloh so that it may come into our midst and deliver ^[Or "save"] us from the hand of our enemies."

###### v4
So the army sent to Shiloh and brought from there the ark of the covenant of Yahweh of hosts who sits _between_ the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, _were_ there with the ark of the covenant of God.

###### v5
Now when the ark of the covenant of Yahweh arrived at the camp, all Israel _let out a loud shout_ ^[Literally "shouted a great shout"] so that the earth shook.

###### v6
When _the_ Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, "What _is_ the noise of this loud shouting in the camp of the Hebrews?" Then they learned that the ark of Yahweh had come into the camp.

###### v7
So _the_ Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God has come ^[Or "gods have come"] to the camp." And they said, "Woe to us, _for this has never happened before!_ ^[Literally "it has not happened like this since yesterday and since the day before that"]

###### v8
Woe to us! Who can deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? These _are_ the _same_ gods who struck the Egyptians with all _sorts of_ plagues in the desert.

###### v9
Take courage and be men, _you_ Philistines, lest you end up serving the Hebrews just like they have served you. Be men and fight!"

###### v10
So _the_ Philistines fought and Israel was defeated and each man fled to his tent, for the slaughter was very great. Thirty thousand foot soldiers from Israel fell.

###### v11
Furthermore, the ark of God was captured, ^[Or "taken"] and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.

###### v12
A man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came _to_ Shiloh that same day, and his clothes _were_ torn and earth _was_ on his head.

###### v13
When he came, _there was_ ^[Literally "look"] Eli sitting on his chair _by the side of the road_ ^[Literally "_by_ the hand of _the_ road"] watching, because his heart was anxious about the ark of God. Now the man had come _to give his report_ ^[Literally "to tell"] in the city, and all the city cried out.

###### v14
When Eli heard the noise of the outcry, he said, "What _is_ the noise of this commotion?" Then the man _came quickly_ ^[Literally "hastened and came"] and told Eli.

###### v15
Now Eli _was_ _ninety-eight years old_ ^[Literally "a son of ninety and eight years"] and his eyes _stayed fixed ahead_ ^[Literally "were standing"] and he was not able to see.

###### v16
And the man said to Eli, "I am the _one_ who has come from the battle line! I have fled today from the battle line!" And he said, "_What exactly happened_, ^[Literally "what _is_ the thing/matter"] my son?"

###### v17
Then the messenger answered and said, "Israel has fled before _the_ Philistines. There has been a great defeat among the troops. Also, your two sons have died, Hophni and Phinehas, and the ark of God has been captured."

###### v18
Just as he mentioned the ark of God, he ^[That is, Eli] fell from his chair backwards against the side of the gate. He broke his neck and died, because the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.

###### v19
Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, _was_ pregnant and _about_ to give birth. When she heard the news concerning the capture of the ark of God and that her father-in-law and her husband had died, she _went into labor_ ^[Literally "bowed down"] and gave birth, because her labor pains came upon her.

###### v20
Just before the time of her death, those _attending her_ ^[Literally "standing over her"] said, "Do not fear, for you have given birth to a son." But she did not answer, or _pay any attention_. ^[Literally "set her heart"]

###### v21
She called the boy Ichabod, ^[The name "Ichabod" means "no glory"] saying, "The glory has departed from Israel," referring to the capture of the ark of God and concerning her father-in-law and husband.

###### v22
And she said, "The glory has departed from Israel, because the ark of God was captured." ^[Or "taken"]