---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 2
---

[[1 Sam-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Hannah prayed and said,
"My heart exults in Yahweh, my strength _is_ exalted in Yahweh; _I grin_ ^[Literally "my mouth _is_ broad"] over my enemies, for I rejoice over your salvation.

###### v2
There is no one holy like Yahweh, for there is no one besides you,
and there is no rock like our God.

###### v3
Do not increase speaking _very proud_ ^[Literally "proud, proud"] words!
Let no arrogance go forth from your mouth,
for Yahweh is a God of knowledge
_whose_ deeds are not weighed. ^[So Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_); the reading tradition (_Qere)_ reads "and by him deeds are weighed"]

###### v4
The bows of mighty warriors _are_ shattered,
but those who stumble gird _themselves with_ strength.

###### v5
Those who were full must hire themselves out for bread,
but those who are hungry will become fat.
As for the infertile, she will bear seven,
but _she who has_ many sons withers away.

###### v6
Yahweh kills and restores alive,
he brings down _to_ Sheol ^["Sheol" is a Hebrew term for the place where the dead reside, i.e., the underworld.] and raises up.

###### v7
Yahweh makes poor and makes rich;
he brings low and also exalts.

###### v8
He raises up the poor from _the_ dust.
From _the_ ash heap he lifts up the needy,
to cause them to sit with noble people
and to cause them to inherit a seat of honor.
For the pillars of the earth belong to Yahweh
and he has set the inhabited world on them.

###### v9
He will guard the feet of his faithful ^[Or "loyal"] ones,
but the wicked will be destroyed ^[Or "will be silenced"] in the darkness,
because a man will not prevail by _his_ might.

###### v10
Yahweh will shatter ^[Singular verb supported by Syriac, Targums, Septuagint, and Old Latin versions.] his adversaries; ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) has the singular "adversary"; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ reads the plural]
he will thunder against them in the heavens.
Yahweh will judge the ends of the earth.
He will give strength to his king
and will exalt the might of his anointed one.

###### v11
Then Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. Now the boy was serving Yahweh _in the presence of_ ^[Literally "in the face of"] Eli the priest.

###### v12
Now the sons of Eli _were_ _worthless scoundrels_; ^[Literally "sons of Belial"] they did not know ^[Or "acknowledge"] Yahweh.

###### v13
And the custom of the priests with the people _was this_: When any man _brought a sacrifice_, ^[Literally "_was_ sacrificing a sacrifice" and so throughout 1 &amp; 2 Samuel] as the meat was boiling, the servant of the priest would take a three-pronged meat fork in his hand

###### v14
and would thrust it into the pan or into the kettle or into the cauldron or into the cooking pot. All that the meat fork brought up the priest would take for himself. This _is_ what they used to do to all of the Israelites who came there at Shiloh.

###### v15
Also, before they _offered up_ ^[Literally "caused to go up in smoke"] the fat as a burnt offering, the servant of the priest would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, "Give the priest meat for roasting, for he will not take boiled meat from you, but only _raw_." ^[Literally "with the life"]

###### v16
And _if_ the man said to him, "Let them burn the fat completely _first_, ^[Literally "as the day"] then take for yourself as _you_ ^[Literally "as your soul"] desire," then he would say to him, "No! ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere)_] Give it now! If not, I will take it by force!"

###### v17
So the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of Yahweh, because the men treated the offering of Yahweh with contempt.

###### v18
Now Samuel _was_ serving before Yahweh, as a boy wearing a linen ephod.

###### v19
His mother used to make for him a small robe and take it to him _year by year_ ^[Literally "from days to days"] whenever she came up with her husband to offer the _annual sacrifice_. ^[Literally "the sacrifice of days"]

###### v20
And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, and he said, "May Yahweh give you an offspring from this woman in place of the petitioned _one_ that she requested from Yahweh." Then they went to their home.

###### v21
Yahweh took note of Hannah, and she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters, while the young man Samuel grew up with Yahweh.

###### v22
Now Eli was very old, and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel and that they _were_ having sexual relations with the women who _were_ serving _at_ the entrance of _the_ tent of assembly. ^[Or "meeting"]

###### v23
And he asked them, "Why are you doing all these things that I am hearing, _namely_, your evil dealings with all these people?

###### v24
No, my sons, the report _is_ not good that I am hearing the people of Yahweh spreading.

###### v25
If a man sins against a man, then God can intercede for him. But if a man sins against Yahweh, who can intercede for him?" But they did not _obey_ ^[Literally "listen to the voice of"] their father, because Yahweh wanted to kill them.

###### v26
But the boy Samuel _continued to grow in stature and in favor_ ^[Literally "_was_ going and being great and good"] with Yahweh and with the people.

###### v27
Now a man of God came to Eli and said to him: "Thus says Yahweh: 'Did I not clearly reveal myself to the house of your ancestor ^[Or "father," meaning Aaron] when they were in Egypt under the house of Pharaoh?

###### v28
And I chose him from all the tribes of Israel to be a priest to me, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, and to bear an ephod before me. I gave to the house of your ancestor ^[Or "father"] all the offerings made by fire by the _Israelites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"]

###### v29
Why do you despise my sacrifice and my offering which I commanded _for my_ dwelling place, while you honored your sons more than me by making yourselves fat from the best of all the offerings of my people Israel?

###### v30
Therefore,' _declares_ ^[Literally "the declaration of"] Yahweh the God of Israel, 'though I solemnly said that your house and the house of your ancestor ^[Or "father"] would walk before me forever, but now,' _declares_ ^[Literally "the declaration of"] Yahweh, 'far be it from me, for those who honor me I will honor, but those who despise me, I will treat with contempt!

###### v31
Look, days _are_ coming when I will cut off your _strength_ ^[Literally "arm," figurative of "strength" in the context of "descendants"] and the _strength_ ^[Literally "arm," figurative of "strength" in the context of "descendants"] of the house of your ancestor ^[Or "father"] _so that no one in your house will live to old age_. ^[Literally "from being old in your house"]

###### v32
You will look at the distress of my dwelling place, _despite_ all the good caused for Israel, but there will never be an old _man_ in your household _forever_! ^[Literally "all the days"]

###### v33
The only one I will not cut off from my altar _is you_. ^[Understanding the _beth_ preposition as a _beth essentiae_] _Rather_, to cause your eyes to fail and to cause your soul to grieve, _all the members of your household_ ^[Literally "all the abundance of your house"] will die _as_ men. ^[Or "in their prime"; some Greek and other manuscripts supply "sword" ("will die by the sword of men")]

###### v34
This _is_ the sign for you that will come regarding your two sons Hophni and Phinehas: they will both die on the same day!

###### v35
But I will raise up for myself a reliable ^[Or "faithful"] priest; he will do just according to what _is_ in my heart and in my soul. I will build for him a lasting ^[Hebrew "faithful" or "reliable"] house and he will walk continually before my anointed one _forever_. ^[Literally "all the days"]

###### v36
All the remainder of your household will come to bow down _before_ ^[Literally "to"] him for a bit of silver or a loaf of bread and will say, "Please assign me to one of the _priestly offices_ ^[Literally "priesthoods"] so that I can eat a morsel of bread."'"