---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 9
---

[[1 Sam-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now there was a man from Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjaminite, _a very wealthy man_. ^[Literally "a man mighty of wealth" or "a man mighty of valor"]

###### v2
He had a son whose name was Saul, ^[The name "Saul" means "the requested one"] a young and handsome man. There was not a man from the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] more handsome than he _was_; from his shoulders up, he was taller than all the people.

###### v3
Now the female donkeys of Kish the father of Saul got lost, and Kish said to Saul his son, "Please take one of the servants with you and get up; go and seek the female donkeys."

###### v4
So he passed through the hill country of Ephraim; he passed through the land of Shalisha but they did not find _them_. They passed through the land of Shaalim but they were not there. He passed through the land of Benjamin but did not find _them_.

###### v5
When they entered the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant who _was_ with him, "Come, let us return, lest my father cease _caring about_ the female donkeys and worry about us!"

###### v6
But he ^[That is, Saul's servant] said to him, "Look, a man of God _is_ in this town, and the man _is_ honored. All that he says certainly comes true. So then let us go there; perhaps he will tell us about our journey on which we have gone."

###### v7
So Saul said to his servant, "Look, we may go, but what should we bring to the man? For the bread _is_ gone from our bags, and there _is_ no present to bring to the man of God. What _do we have_ with us?"

###### v8
The servant again answered Saul and said, "Look, _I have_ ^[Literally "what was found"] in my hand a quarter shekel of silver! I will give it to the man of God so that he will tell us our way."

###### v9
(Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he would say: "Come, let us go up to the seer." For the prophet of today was formerly called a seer.)

###### v10
So Saul said to his servant, "_Your suggestion is a good one_. ^[Literally "Your word _is_ good"] Come, let us go." And they went to the town where the man of God _was_.

###### v11
They _were_ going up the ascent of the town when they found young women going out to draw water. They said to them, "Is there the seer here?"

###### v12
They answered them and said, "There is. Look, _he is_ just in front of you! Hurry now, because he has come to the town today, because there _is_ a sacrifice for the people today at the high place.

###### v13
As soon as you enter the town, you will find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he comes, because he must bless the sacrifice. Then afterward the invited _guests_ will eat. So then, go up, because you will find him today!"

###### v14
So they went up to the town. As they _were_ entering into the middle of the town, Samuel was coming forth to meet them, to go up to the high place.

###### v15
Now Yahweh _had revealed this to_ ^[Literally "had opened the ear"] Samuel the day before Saul arrived, saying,

###### v16
"This time tomorrow I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you must anoint him as leader over my people Israel. He will deliver my people from the hand of _the_ Philistines. For I have seen _the suffering of_ my people, because their cry _of distress_ has come to me."

###### v17
When Samuel saw Saul, Yahweh answered him, "Here _is_ the man about whom I told you! This _is the_ one _who_ will govern my people."

###### v18
Then Saul approached Samuel in the middle of the gate and said, "Please tell me, where _is_ the house of the seer?"

###### v19
Samuel answered Saul and said, "I _am_ the seer. Go up _ahead of me_ ^[Literally "before my face"] to the high place, and you will eat with me today; then I will send you away in the morning. I will tell you all that _is_ _on your mind_. ^[Literally "in your heart"]

###### v20
And as for your female donkeys that were lost _three days ago_, ^[Literally "the day three of the days"] _do not be concerned about them_, ^[Literally "you shall not put your heart to them"] because they have been found. For whom _is_ all the desire of Israel? Is it not for you and for all the house of your father?"

###### v21
Saul answered and said, "_Am_ I not a Benjaminite, from the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the humblest of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? Why do you speak to me _in this way_?" ^[Literally "according to this word"]

###### v22
So Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them to a room in the building and gave them a place at the head of _the invited guests_. ^[Literally "the ones being invited"] There were about thirty men.

###### v23
Then Samuel said to the cook, "Bring the portion that I gave to you, about which I said to you, 'Keep it with you.'"

###### v24
So the cook took up the shank and what was on it and put it before Saul, and he ^[That is, Samuel] said, "Look, _the saved portion_ ^[Literally "what was being kept"] _is_ placed _before you_ ^[Literally "to your face"]--eat, because it has been kept for you for the appointed time," _and he said_, ^[Literally "saying"] "I have invited the people." So Saul ate with Samuel that day.

###### v25
When they came down from the high place to the town, he spoke with Saul on the roof.

###### v26
They got up early, _and as dawn was breaking_, ^[Literally "as the dawn was going up"] Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, "Get up, so that I can send you away." So Saul got up and the two of them, he and Samuel, went outside.

###### v27
As they were going down to the outskirts of the town, Samuel said to Saul, "Tell the servant to pass on before us. When he has passed, you stand here _a while_, ^[Literally "as the day"] so that I can make known to you _the_ word of God."