---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 19
---

[[1 Sam-18|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-20|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants about killing David, but Saul's son Jonathan _liked David very much_. ^[Literally "delighted in David very"]

###### v2
So Jonathan informed David, saying, "My father Saul _is_ trying to kill you; now please take care! In the morning you should stay in the hiding place and conceal yourself.

###### v3
I will go out and stand _at my father's side_ ^[Literally "at the hand of my father"] in the field where you are, and I will speak about you to my father; _if I find out anything_ ^[Literally "if I see and what?"] I will tell _it_ to you."

###### v4
So Jonathan spoke well about David to his father Saul and said to him, "The king should not sin against his servant David, because he has not sinned against you, and because his service for you _has been_ very good.

###### v5
He put his life in his hand and attacked the Philistine, and Yahweh brought about a great victory for all of Israel, and you saw _it_ and rejoiced! Now why should you sin against innocent blood by killing David without cause?"

###### v6
And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan and swore, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "the life of Yahweh"] he will not be put to death!"

###### v7
Jonathan called to David and told him all of these words. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul and he was before him as _formerly_. ^[Literally "yesterday three days ago"]

###### v8
War came again, so David went out and fought against _the_ Philistines and _defeated them thoroughly_ ^[Literally "he struck them down with a great blow"] so that they fled before him.

###### v9
Then the evil spirit from Yahweh came upon Saul while he was sitting in his house _with_ his spear in his hand. And David _was_ playing a stringed instrument in _his_ hand.

###### v10
So Saul tried _to pin David to the wall with the spear_, ^[Literally "to strike with the spear on David and to the wall"] but _he eluded Saul_, ^[Literally "he escaped from the presence of Saul"] so that he struck the spear into the wall, and David fled and escaped that _same_ night.

###### v11
Then Saul sent messengers to David's house to guard him and to kill him in the morning, but Michal his wife told David, saying, "If _you do not save your life_ ^[Literally "you are not saving your life"] tonight, _then_ tomorrow you _will be_ killed!"

###### v12
So Michal lowered David through the window, and he went and fled and escaped.

###### v13
Then Michal took the household god ^[Hebrew _teraphim_] and put it on the bed and put a quilt of goat's hair at its head and covered _it_ with the clothes.

###### v14
And Saul sent messengers to arrest David, but she said, "He _is_ ill."

###### v15
So Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up to me in the bed, so that I can kill him."

###### v16
When the messengers came, _to their surprise_ ^[Literally "and look"] the idol _was_ on the bed _with_ the quilt of goat's hair at the head.

###### v17
Then Saul said to Michal, "Why have you deceived me like this and sent away my enemy, so that he escaped?" Michal said to Saul, "He said to me, 'Let me go, why should I kill you?'"

###### v18
So David fled and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went and stayed in Naioth.

###### v19
And it was told to Saul, "David _is_ in Naioth in Ramah."

###### v20
So Saul sent messengers to capture David. When they saw the company of the prophets prophesying and Samuel standing _as_ chief over them, then the Spirit of God came upon Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.

###### v21
So they told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Again Saul sent messengers a third _time_, and they also prophesied.

###### v22
Then he also went to Ramah. When he came to the great cistern which _was_ in Secu, he asked and said, "Where _are_ Samuel and David?" Someone said, "Look _they are_ in Naioth in Ramah."

###### v23
So he went there to Naioth in Ramah and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and _he walked along prophesying_ ^[Literally "he went going and he prophesied"] until he came to Naioth in Ramah.

###### v24
He also stripped _off_ his clothes and prophesied before Samuel. He lay naked all that day and all night. Therefore they say, "_Is_ Saul also among the prophets?"