---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 20
---

[[1 Sam-19|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-21|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What _is_ my guilt and what _is_ my sin before your father that _he is_ _trying to kill me_? ^[Literally "seeking my life"]

###### v2
And he said to him, "Far from it! You will not die! Look, my father does not do ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "he does to/for him"; the translation follows the reading tradition (_Qere)_ which has "does not do"] _anything large or small unless he reveals it to me_. ^[Literally "a large thing or a small thing and he _does_ not reveal _to_ my ear"] Why should my father hide this thing or anything from me?"

###### v3
Then David _took an oath_ ^[Literally "swore"] again and said, "Your father knows very well that I have found favor in your eyes, and he thought, 'Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he worry.' But _as Yahweh lives_ ^[Literally "the life of Yahweh"] and _as your soul lives_, ^[Literally "_the_ life of your soul"] surely _there is_ merely a step between me and death!"

###### v4
Then Jonathan said to David, "_Whatever you wish_, ^[Literally "What your soul says"] I will do for you."

###### v5
David said to Jonathan, "Look, tomorrow _is_ the new moon, and I should certainly sit with the king to eat. You must send me away so that I can hide myself in the field until the third evening.

###### v6
If your father misses me at all, then you must say, 'David earnestly asked from me to run to Bethlehem his city, for _the yearly sacrifice_ ^[Literally "the sacrifice of the days"] _is_ there for all the clan.'

###### v7
If he says 'Good,' _it will mean_ peace for your servant; but if he _is_ very angry, know that _he has decided to do me harm_. ^[Literally "the evil has been determined from with him"]

###### v8
So you must show loyal love to your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of Yahweh with you. But if there _is_ guilt in me, _then_ kill me yourself! But why should you bring me to your father?"

###### v9
Then Jonathan said, "Far be it from you! For if I know for certain that _my father decided evil should come upon you_, ^[Literally "the evil _is_ determined from with my father to come over you"] would I not have told it to you?"

###### v10
Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will tell me if what your father answers you _is_ harsh?"

###### v11
And Jonathan said to David, "Come, let us go out to the field." So the two of them went out to the field.

###### v12
Then Jonathan said to David, "Yahweh the God of Israel _is my witness_ ^[The phrase "is my witness" is supplied based on the Syriac version] that I will question my father _by this time the day after tomorrow_. ^[Literally "as the time tomorrow the third"] And look, _if he is well disposed toward you_, ^[Literally "_if he is_ good to David"] will I not send _word_ to you and _disclose it to you_? ^[Literally "I will reveal _it to_ your ear"]

###### v13
_So may Yahweh punish Jonathan and more_ ^[Literally "So may Yahweh do to Jonathan and so may he add"] if _my father decides to do you harm_ ^[Literally "the evil over you _is_ regarded as good by my father"] and if _I fail to disclose it to you_ ^[Literally "I will reveal _it_ to your ear"] and send word to you that you can go safely. And may Yahweh be with you, as he has been with my father.

###### v14
And not while I am still alive, will you not show the loyal love of Yahweh with me, that I may not die? ^[Or perhaps "and _if_ I die, may you not …"]

###### v15
And do not cut off your loyal love from _my family_ ^[Literally "my house"] forever, not _even_ when Yahweh _exterminates_ ^[Literally "cuts off"] each of the enemies of David from the face of the earth."

###### v16
So Jonathan _made a covenant_ ^[Literally "cut _a covenant_"] with the house of David, _saying,_ "May Yahweh _call the enemies of David to account_." ^[Literally "seek from the hand of the enemies of David"]

###### v17
And Jonathan again made David swear an oath, because he loved him; for with the love of his soul he loved him.

###### v18
Then Jonathan said to him, "Tomorrow _is_ the new moon, and you will be missed, for your seat will stay empty.

###### v19
On the third day you must go down quickly and go to the place where you hid yourself _on the day all this started_ ^[Literally "on the day of the deed"] and remain beside the stone Ezel.

###### v20
I will shoot three arrows _to the_ side as _if_ I were shooting at a target.

###### v21
_Then_ ^[Literally "And look"] I will send _word to_ my servant, 'Go, find the arrows!' If I clearly say to the boy, 'Look, the arrows _are_ _on this side of you_; ^[Literally "from you and here"] _bring_ ^[Literally "take"] it,' then ^[Hebrew "and"] come, for _it means_ peace for you. And there is no problem, _as Yahweh lives_. ^[Literally "the life of Yahweh"]

###### v22
But if I say this to the young man, 'Look, the arrows _are_ _beyond you_,' ^[Literally "from you and beyond"] go, for Yahweh has sent you away.

###### v23
And _as for_ the matter about which you and I spoke, look, Yahweh _is_ between you and me forever."

###### v24
So David hid himself in the field. _When the new moon came_, ^[Literally "And it was the new moon"] _the king was seated at the feast_. ^[Literally "the king sat at the food to eat"]

###### v25
The king sat at his seat _as before_, ^[Literally "as occurrence at occurrence"] the seat by the wall, and Jonathan got up, and Abner sat beside Saul, but David's place was empty.

###### v26
But Saul said nothing on that day, for he thought, "_Something happened to him_. ^[Literally "It _is_ incident"] He _is_ not _ceremonially_ clean; surely he _is_ not clean."

###### v27
_And then_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] on the next day, the second day of the new moon, that David's place was empty. So Saul asked Jonathan his son, "Why did the son of Jesse not come either yesterday or today to the feast?"

###### v28
Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked permission from me _to go_ up to Bethlehem.

###### v29
He said, 'Send me away, please, for our clan sacrifice _is_ in the city, and my brother commanded ^[Or "urged"] me _to be present_. So then, if I have found favor in your eyes, please let me slip away and see my brothers.' Therefore he has not come to the table of the king."

###### v30
Then _Saul became angry_ ^[Literally "the nose of Saul became hot"] at Jonathan and said to him, "_You_ son of a perverse, rebellious woman! ^[Or "bastard of a wayward woman" (HALOT 796)] Do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your shame and to the shame of your mother's nakedness?

###### v31
For _as long as_ ^[Literally "all the days which"] the son of Jesse _is_ alive on the earth, you and your kingdom will not be established! So then, send and bring him to me, for _he will surely die_!" ^[Literally "he _is_ a son of death"]

###### v32
But Jonathan answered his father Saul and said to him, "Why should he be put to death? What has he done?"

###### v33
Then Saul hurled his ^[Hebrew "the"] spear at him to kill him. So Jonathan knew _that his father had decided_ ^[Literally "it was complete from with his father"] to kill David.

###### v34
Jonathan got up from the table _enraged_, ^[Literally "with burning of nose"] and did not eat on the second day of the new moon because he was upset about David, because his father had disgraced him.

###### v35
_And then_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] in the morning Jonathan went out to the field for the appointment with David, and a young boy ^[Or "young servant"] _was_ with him.

###### v36
He said to his servant, ^[Or "boy"] "Run, please find the arrows that I am shooting!" The boy ^[Or "servant"] ran, and he shot the arrow to pass _over_ him.

###### v37
When the boy came up to the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called out after the boy and said, "_Is_ not the arrow _beyond you_?" ^[Literally "from you and beyond"]

###### v38
Then Jonathan called out after the boy, "Quick, hurry, do not linger!" And Jonathan's servant collected the arrows and came to his master.

###### v39
But the boy did not know anything _about this_; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.

###### v40
Jonathan gave his weapons to his servant and said to him, "Go, bring _them_ to the city."

###### v41
The boy left, and then David got up from the south side, ^[So Masoretic Hebrew text; LXX reads "from the mound" (of stones)] and he fell on his face to the ground and bowed three times. And they kissed _each other_ ^[Literally "each his friend"] and wept _together_, ^[Literally "each with his friend"] but David _wept_ the most.

###### v42
Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, because we have sworn, the two of us, _an oath_ in the name of Yahweh, saying, "Yahweh will be between me and you, and between my offspring and your offspring forever." ^[In the Hebrew Bible, [[1 Sam-21|1 Sam 21]] begins here. [[1 Sam-20#v42|1 Samuel 20:42b–21:15]] in the English Bible is 21:1–16 in the Hebrew Bible] Then he got up and left, and Jonathan went into the city.