---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 5
---

[[1 Sam-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now _the_ Philistines had captured ^[Or "taken"] the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.

###### v2
Then _the_ Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the temple of Dagon and placed it beside Dagon.

###### v3
When the Ashdodites got up early the next morning, _there was_ ^[Literally "look"] Dagon fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh! So they took Dagon and returned him to his place.

###### v4
When they got up early in the morning the next day, _there was_ ^[Literally "look"] Dagon fallen _again_ with his face to the ground before the ark of Yahweh! The head of Dagon and the palms of his two hands were cut off, lying at ^[Hebrew "to"] the threshold; only _the body_ ^[The phrase may suggest that only the "fish" part of Dagon was left] of Dagon was left.

###### v5
(Therefore the priests of Dagon and all who come into the house of Dagon do not tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod until this _very_ day.)

###### v6
Now the hand of Yahweh was heavy against the Ashdodites and he destroyed them and struck them with tumors, ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "boils"; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ has "tumors"] both in Ashdod and its territories.

###### v7
The men of Ashdod saw _that_ it _was_ so, and they said, "The ark of the God of Israel should not remain with us, because his hand _is_ harsh on us and on Dagon our god!"

###### v8
So they sent and gathered all the rulers of _the_ Philistines to them, and they asked, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" And they said, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around toward Gath." So they moved the ark of the God of Israel _to Gath_.

###### v9
After they moved it, the hand of Yahweh was against the city, causing a very great confusion, and he struck the men of the city _from the youngest to the oldest_, ^[Literally "from small up to great"] causing tumors ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "boils"; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ has "tumors"] to break out on them.

###### v10
So they sent the ark of God _to_ Ekron. But when the ark of God came _to_ Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought around the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our ^[Hebrew "me and my"] people!"

###### v11
So they sent and gathered all the rulers of _the_ Philistines, and they said, "Send away the ark of the God of Israel and let it return to its place, so that it will not kill us and our people." For a _deadly confusion_ ^[Literally "a confusion of death"; indicates a genitive of attribute] was throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.

###### v12
The men who did not die were struck with _the_ tumors, ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "boils"; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ has "tumors"] so that the cry of the city for help went up _to_ heaven.