---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 10
---

[[1 Sam-09|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-11|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it over his head and kissed him and said, "_Has not_ ^[Literally "Is it not that"] Yahweh anointed you as leader over his inheritance?

###### v2
As you go from with me _today_, ^[Literally "the day"] you will find two men near the burial site of Rachel in the territory of Benjamin at Zelzah. They will say to you, 'The female donkeys that you went to search for have been found.' Now look, your father _is no longer concerned about_ ^[Literally "has given up the matter of"] the female donkeys and has begun worrying about you, ^[Here the pronoun is plural, referring to Saul and his servant] saying, 'What should I do about my son?'

###### v3
Then you will go on from there and further you will come to the oak of Tabor. There three men will meet you, who _are_ going up to God at Bethel. One will be carrying three male kid goats, one will be carrying three loaves of bread, and one will be carrying a skin of wine.

###### v4
_They will ask how you are doing_ ^[Literally "they will ask peace for you"] and will give you two loaves, which you will take from their hand.

###### v5
After this, you will come to the Gibeah of God, ^[Or "to Gibeath Elohim," which means "the hill of God"] where there are sentries ^[Or "garrisons" or "overseers"] of _the_ Philistines. _Just as you enter_ ^[Literally "and will it happen that as you enter"] the town there, you will meet a procession of prophets coming down from the high place, with harp, tambourine, flute, and zither before them, and they will be prophesying.

###### v6
Then the Spirit of Yahweh will rush upon you, ^[Or "will come upon you in power"] and you will prophesy with them; and you will turn into _a different person_. ^[Literally "another man"]

###### v7
When these signs come to you, do for yourself what your hand finds _to do_, for God _will be_ with you.

###### v8
Then you will go down before me to Gilgal. Look, I am coming down to you to offer burnt offerings _and to make_ ^[Literally "to sacrifice sacrifices of"] fellowship offerings. You must wait seven days until I come to you. Then I will let you know what you should do."

###### v9
_Just as he turned_ ^[Literally "And it happened as he turned"] his shoulder to depart from Samuel, God _changed his_ ^[Literally "gave for him another"] heart. And all these signs were fulfilled on that day.

###### v10
When they went from there to Gibeah, a procession of prophets met him, and the Spirit of God rushed upon him, ^[Or "came upon him in power"] and he prophesied among them.

###### v11
_And when_ ^[Literally "and it happened"] all who knew him _formerly_ ^[Literally "three days from yesterday"] saw that he prophesied with prophets, the people said to one another, "What _is_ this _that_ has happened to the son of Kish? _Is_ Saul also among the prophets?"

###### v12
And a man from there responded and said, "And who _is_ their father?" Therefore it became a proverb: "_Is_ Saul also among the prophets?"

###### v13
When he finished prophesying, he went to the high place.

###### v14
Then Saul's uncle said to him and to his servant, "Where did you go?" And he said, "To search _for_ the female donkeys; and when we saw none, we went to Samuel."

###### v15
So Saul's uncle said to him, "Please tell me, what did Samuel say to you?"

###### v16
Then Saul said to his uncle, "He told us for certain that the female donkeys had been found." But he did not tell him about the matter of the kingship _of_ which Samuel had spoken.

###### v17
Then Samuel summoned the people to Yahweh at Mizpah,

###### v18
and he said to the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] "Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: 'I brought Israel up from Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kingdoms that _were_ oppressing you.'

###### v19
But you today have rejected your God who always delivers you from all of your calamities and your distresses. You have said to him, 'No, but you must appoint a king over us!' So then present yourselves before Yahweh by your tribes and by your clans."

###### v20
So Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was selected by lot.

###### v21
Then he brought near the tribe of Benjamin according to its families, and the family of Matri was selected by lot. Then Saul the son of Kish was chosen, and they sought him, but he could not be found.

###### v22
So they inquired again of Yahweh, "_Did the man come here_?"  ^[Literally "Did he come still here a man"] And Yahweh said, "Look, he _is_ hiding himself among the baggage."

###### v23
So they ran and took him from there, and when he took his stand among the people, he was taller than all the people from his shoulders and up.

###### v24
Then Samuel said to all the people, "Do you see him whom Yahweh has chosen? For there is no one like him among all the people!" And all the people shouted and said, "Long live the king!"

###### v25
Then Samuel told the people the custom of the kingship, and he wrote _the rules_ down on a scroll and laid _it_ before Yahweh. Then Samuel sent all the people away, each to his own house.

###### v26
And Saul also went to his house at Gibeah, and the troops whose hearts ^[Hebrew "heart"] God had touched went with him.

###### v27
However, some _worthless men_ ^[Literally "sons of wickedness"] said, "How can this _man_ deliver us?" So they despised him and brought no gift to him, but he kept silent. ^[The Dead Sea Scrolls contained a nearly complete scroll of 1 and 2 Samuel, the oldest Hebrew manuscript extant. There is a story therein that provides a setting for the acts of Nahash in 1 Samuel 11, which otherwise seems to occur obtrusively. This story may be translated: "Now Nahash, king of the Ammonites, harshly tormented the Gadites and the Reubenites, and he gouged out all their right eyes, and struck terror _and dread_ in Israel. No Israelite beyond the Jordan remained whose right eye was not gouged out by Nahash king of the Ammonites, except for seven thousand men who had fled from the Ammonites and entered Jabesh Gilead. About a month later …" This early text leaves off with 11:1 at this point]