---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 7
---

[[1 Sam-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The men of Kiriath Jearim came and brought up the ark of Yahweh, and they brought it to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah. They consecrated Eleazer his son to guard the ark of Yahweh.

###### v2
_From_ ^[Literally "And it happened from"] the day the ark stayed in Kiriath Jearim, _days multiplied and became twenty years_ ^[Literally "and the days were numerous, and they were twenty years"] while all the house of Israel mourned after Yahweh.

###### v3
And Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, "If with all your heart you _are_ turning to Yahweh, remove the foreign gods and Ashtoreths ^[Hebrew plural "Ashtaroth" (Ashtoreth was the female consort of Ba'al)] from your midst. Commit your hearts to Yahweh and serve him alone. Then he will deliver you from the hand of _the_ Philistines."

###### v4
So the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] removed the Baals ^[Hebrew plural "Be'alim" (Ba'al was a major Canaanite deity)] and the Ashtoreths, and they served Yahweh alone.

###### v5
Then Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray to Yahweh for you."

###### v6
So they gathered to Mizpah and drew water and poured _it_ out before Yahweh. They fasted on that day and said there, "We have sinned against Yahweh!" So Samuel judged the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] at Mizpah.

###### v7
_Now_ when _the_ Philistines heard that the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] had gathered at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] heard _of it_, _they were afraid of the Philistines_. ^[Literally "and they were afraid from (= because of) the presence of the Philistines"]

###### v8
Then the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] said to Samuel, "_You must not cease_ ^[Literally "You must not be silent from us"] from crying out to Yahweh our God, so that he will deliver us from the hand of _the_ Philistines."

###### v9
So Samuel took a single _nursing lamb_ ^[Literally "lamb of milk"] and sacrificed _it_ as a whole burnt offering to Yahweh. Then Samuel cried out to Yahweh on behalf of Israel, and Yahweh answered him.

###### v10
_While_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] Samuel _was_ sacrificing the burnt offering, _the_ Philistines drew near for the battle against Israel. But Yahweh thundered against _the_ Philistines with a great noise on that day and threw them into confusion so that they were defeated before Israel.

###### v11
Then the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and pursued _the_ Philistines and they struck them down as far as below Beth Car.

###### v12
So Samuel took a single stone and put _it_ between Mizpah and Shen, and he named it Ebenezer and said, "Up to here Yahweh has helped us."

###### v13
So the Philistines were subdued and they did not come into the territory of Israel again, and the hand of Yahweh was against _the_ Philistines all the days of Samuel.

###### v14
The towns ^[Or "cities"] which _the_ Philistines had taken from Israel _were_ returned to Israel from Ekron to Gath, and Israel delivered their territories from the hand of _the_ Philistines. Then there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.

###### v15
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.

###### v16
He used to go _on the circuit_ _from year to year_. ^[Literally "from what _is_ required year in year"] He went around Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and he judged Israel _in_ all these places.

###### v17
Then _he returned_ ^[Literally "and his return _was_"] to Ramah, because his house was there, and there he judged Israel, and he built an altar to Yahweh there.