---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 3
---

[[1 Sam-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now the boy Samuel was serving Yahweh _in the presence_ ^[Literally "in the face of"] of Eli. The word of Yahweh was rare in those days; visions were not widespread.

###### v2
_And then_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] one day when Eli was lying in his place (now his eyes had begun _to grow_ weak so that he was not able to see)

###### v3
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, Samuel was lying in the temple ^[Although the Hebrew text reads "temple," this is a reference to the tabernacle (see 1:3, 9)] of Yahweh where the ark of God _was_.

###### v4
Then Yahweh called out to Samuel and he said, "Here I am!"

###### v5
And he ran to Eli and said, "Here I am, because you called me." But he said, "I did not call _you_. Go back and lie down." So he went and lay down.

###### v6
And Yahweh called Samuel again, so Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because you called me." And he said, "I did not call you, my son. Go back _and_ lie down."

###### v7
Now Samuel did not yet know Yahweh, and the word of Yahweh had not yet been revealed to him.

###### v8
Again Yahweh called Samuel a third time, so he got up and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because you called me." Then Eli realized that Yahweh was calling the boy.

###### v9
So Eli said to Samuel "Go lie down. _If he calls_ ^[Literally "And it will happen _that_ if he calls"] to you, then you must say, 'Speak Yahweh, because your servant _is_ listening.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his place.

###### v10
Then Yahweh came and stood _there_ and called out _as before_, ^[Literally "as an occurrence, in an occurrence"] "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel said, "Speak, because your servant _is_ listening."

###### v11
So Yahweh said to Samuel, "Look, I am doing something in Israel _which will cause_ ^[Literally "about which"] the two ears of everyone who hears it to tingle.

###### v12
On that day I will fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken against his household, _from beginning to end_. ^[Literally "begin and finish"]

###### v13
I will make him know that I am about to judge his household forever because of the iniquity that he knew, for his sons _were_ bringing curses on themselves, ^[LXX reads "were cursing God"] but he did not rebuke them.

###### v14
Therefore I swore to the house of Eli _that_ the iniquity of the house of Eli would not be atoned for ^[Or "be expiated"] by sacrifice or by offering forever."

###### v15
So Samuel lay down until morning; then he opened the doors of the house of Yahweh, but Samuel was afraid of telling the vision to Eli.

###### v16
Then Eli called Samuel and said, "Samuel, my son!" And he said, "Here I am."

###### v17
And he said, "What _is_ the message ^[Or "word"] that he spoke to you? Please do not conceal _it_ from me. May God _punish you severely_ ^[Literally "do to you and so may he add"] if you conceal anything from me of all the words that he told you."

###### v18
So Samuel told him all the words and did not conceal _anything_ from him. And he ^[That is, Eli] said, "He _is_ Yahweh, he will do _what is_ ^[Literally "the"] good in his _sight_." ^[Literally "eyes"]

###### v19
And Samuel grew up, and Yahweh was with him. _He did not allow any of his prophecies to go unfulfilled_. ^[Literally "He let none from all of his words fall to the ground."]

###### v20
All Israel from Dan to Beersheba realized that Samuel was faithful ^[Or "reliable" or "trustworthy"] as a prophet to Yahweh.

###### v21
And Yahweh appeared again in Shiloh, for Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh through the word of Yahweh.