---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 27
---

[[1 Sam-26|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-28|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then David _thought to himself_, ^[Literally "said to his heart"] "Now I will perish one day by the hand of Saul! There is nothing better for me but _that_ I must certainly escape to the land of _the_ Philistines. Then Saul will desist from searching for me further in all of the territories of Israel, and so I will escape from his hand."

###### v2
So David got up and crossed over, he and the six hundred men who _were_ with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, the king of Gath.

###### v3
David settled with Achish in Gath, he and his men, each with his household. ^[Or "family"] David _took along_ his two wives Ahinoam _from Jezreel_ ^[Literally "the Jezreelitess"] and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.

###### v4
And it was reported to Saul that David had fled _to_ Gath, so _he no longer searched for him_. ^[Literally "he does __Qere_ did_ not again to seek him longer"]

###### v5
Then David said to Achish, "Please, if I have found favor in your eyes, then let them give me a place in one of the _country towns_ ^[Literally "towns of the open field"] that I can live there. Why should your servant live in _the royal city_ ^[Literally "the city of the king"] with you?"

###### v6
So Achish gave him Ziklag on that day. (Therefore, Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah until this day.)

###### v7
The number of days that David lived in the countryside of the Philistines _was_ one year and four months.

###### v8
Now David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites, for they had been living _in_ the land for a long time _in the direction of_ ^[Literally "_as_ you come"] Shur and _as far as_ ^[Literally "up to"] the land of Egypt.

###### v9
So David struck the land and did not leave a man or a woman alive; he took the sheep, ^[Hebrew "flock," referring to either sheep or goats or both] the cattle, the donkeys, the camels, and the clothing. Then he returned and came to Achish.

###### v10
And Achish said, "Against whom have you raided today?" David said, "Against the Negev of Judah and against the Negev of the Jerahmeelites and against the Negev of the Kenites."

###### v11
And David did not leave alive a man or a woman to bring _them back_ to Gath, thinking, ^[Hebrew "saying"] "So that they will not report about us, saying, 'David did thus and so.'" Thus was his practice all the days that he lived in the countryside of _the_ Philistines.

###### v12
And Achish trusted David, saying, "_He has made himself utterly hated_ ^[Literally "Stinking he stink" = "he really stinks"] among his people in Israel, and he will be my servant forever."