---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 15
---

[[1 Sam-14|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-16|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Yahweh sent me to anoint you as king over his people Israel. So then, _listen to the words_ ^[Literally "listen to the voice of the words"] of Yahweh!

###### v2
Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'I have observed what Amalek did to Israel, _how he opposed him_ ^[Literally "what he placed against him in the way"] when he went up from Egypt.

###### v3
So then, go and attack Amalek and utterly destroy all that is his! You must not spare him, but kill both man and woman, both child and nursing infant, both ox and sheep, both camel and donkey.'"

###### v4
Saul summoned the army and mustered them at Telaim; two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah.

###### v5
Then Saul came up to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the wadi. ^[A valley that is usually dry but contains a stream during the rainy season]

###### v6
Saul said to the Kenites, "Go, leave! Withdraw from among the Amalekites so that I do not destroy you with them. You have shown loyal love to all the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] when they came up from Egypt." So the Kenites left from among _the_ Amalekites.

###### v7
Then Saul defeated _the_ Amalekites from Havilah as one goes to Shur which _is_ _east of_ ^[Literally "upon the face of"] Egypt.

###### v8
He captured Agag the king of Amalek alive, but all the people he utterly destroyed with the _edge_ ^[Literally "mouth"] of the sword.

###### v9
However, Saul and the army spared Agag and the best of the sheep and the cattle and the second _best_ of the young fatlings and _all that was valuable_; ^[Literally "all the good _things_"] they were not willing to utterly destroy them. But all the possessions that were despised or worthless, they utterly destroyed.

###### v10
Then the word of Yahweh came to Samuel, saying,

###### v11
"I regret that I made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me and has not kept my word." _Samuel became angry_, ^[Literally "it became hot for Samuel"] and he cried out to Yahweh all night.

###### v12
Then Samuel got up early in the morning to meet Saul. Samuel was told, "Saul has gone to Carmel, and look, he _is_ setting up a monument for himself." Then he turned around and crossed over and went down to Gilgal.

###### v13
When Samuel came to Saul, Saul said to him, "May you be blessed by Yahweh! I have kept the word of Yahweh."

###### v14
But Samuel said, "Then what _is_ this bleating of the sheep _that I hear_ in my ears and the lowing of the cattle that I am hearing?"

###### v15
Saul said, "They have brought them from _the_ Amalekites; the troops spared the best of the sheep and the cattle in order to sacrifice them to Yahweh your God. But the rest we have utterly destroyed."

###### v16
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stop and let me tell you what Yahweh said to me last night." So he said to him, "Speak."

###### v17
Samuel said, "Even though you _are_ small in your _own_ eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of Israel? Yahweh has anointed you as king over Israel.

###### v18
When Yahweh sent you on your way, he said to you: 'Go! You must utterly destroy the sinners, _the_ Amalekites, and you must fight against them until you ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text reads "they"; LXX, Peshitta, and Targum read "you"] have destroyed them.'

###### v19
Why did you not listen to the voice of Yahweh and fall with shouting on the plunder? You have done evil in the sight of Yahweh!"

###### v20
Then Saul said to Samuel, "I have listened to the voice of Yahweh, and I have gone on the way that Yahweh sent me! I brought Agag the king of Amalek, and the Amalekites I have utterly destroyed.

###### v21
The troops took from the plunder, sheep and cattle, the best of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God at Gilgal."

###### v22
Then Samuel said,
"Is there _as much_ delight for Yahweh in burnt offerings and sacrifices
as _there is_ in _obeying_ ^[Literally "listening to the voice of"] Yahweh?
Look! _To obey_ ^[Literally "Listening"] _is_ better than sacrifice;
to give heed than the fat of rams.

###### v23
For rebellion _is like_ the sin of divination;
arrogance _is like_ iniquity and idolatry.
Because you have rejected the word of Yahweh,
he has rejected you from _being_ king!"

###### v24
Then Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned because I have transgressed _the commandment of Yahweh_ ^[Literally "the mouth of Yahweh"] and your words, for I feared the troops and I listened to their voice.

###### v25
So then, please pardon my sin and return with me _so that I can worship_ ^[Literally "so that I can bow down to"] Yahweh."

###### v26
But Samuel said to Saul, "I will not return with you, for you have rejected the word of Yahweh, and he has rejected you from being king over Israel!"

###### v27
As Samuel turned around to go, he ^[That is, Saul] caught hold of the hem of his robe, and it tore.

###### v28
Then Samuel said to him, "Yahweh has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to your neighbor _who is better than you_. ^[Literally "the better than you"]

###### v29
Moreover, the Glory of Israel will not break faith and will not regret, for he _is_ not a human that he should regret."

###### v30
Then he ^[That is, Saul] said, "I have sinned! Now please honor me before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me _so that I can worship_ ^[Literally "so that I can bow down to"] Yahweh your God."

###### v31
So Samuel returned after Saul, and Saul _worshiped_ ^[Literally "bowed down to"] Yahweh.

###### v32
Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of Amalek out to me!" Agag came to him confidently, ^[Or "trembling"; literally "in chains/bonds" (HALOT 609 s.v. 2); the meaning here is uncertain (LXX has "trembling")] for Agag thought, "Surely the bitterness of death _is over_." ^[Literally "has turned aside"; other English versions follow the LXX and Peshitta and omit "has turned aside," reading "Surely the bitterness of death!"]

###### v33
Samuel said,
"Just as your sword bereaved women,
so will your mother be bereaved among women!"
Then Samuel hacked Agag to pieces in the presence of Yahweh at Gilgal.

###### v34
Then Samuel went to Ramah and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.

###### v35
Samuel _did not see Saul again_ ^[Literally "did not add to see Saul"] until the day of his death, but Samuel mourned over Saul, and Yahweh regretted that he made Saul king over Israel.