---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 22
---

[[1 Sam-21|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-23|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
David went from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and all his father's household ^[Or "family"] heard, they came down to him there.

###### v2
Every man in distress and every man who had a creditor and every embittered man gathered to him, and he became _their commander_. ^[Literally "over them as commander"] Now there _were_ about four hundred men with him.

###### v3
And David went up from there to Mizpah of Moab. He said to the king of Moab, "Please let my father and my mother _stay_ ^[Literally "come/go out"] with you until I know what God will do for me."

###### v4
So _he brought them before the king of Moab_, ^[Literally "he led them into the presence of the king of Moab"] and they stayed with him all the days David was in the stronghold.

###### v5
Then Gad the prophet said to David, "You should not stay in the stronghold; leave and go into the land of Judah." So David left and came _to_ the forest of Hereth.

###### v6
Now Saul heard that David and the men who _were_ with him had been located. Saul _was_ sitting at Gibeah under the tamarisk _tree_ at Ramah. Now his spear _was_ in his hand and all his servants _were_ stationed around him.

###### v7
Then Saul said to the servants who _were_ standing around him, "Please listen, _Benjaminites_! ^[Literally "children of Benjamin"] Will the son of Jesse give you all fields and vineyards? Will he make all of you commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds?

###### v8
For all of you have conspired against me, and _no one discloses to me_ ^[Literally "there is no _one_ revealing _to_ my ear"] the _making_ ^[Literally "cutting"] _of an agreement_ between my son and the son of Jesse! None of you have had sympathy for me or _disclosed to me_ ^[Literally "revealing _to_ my ear"] _that_ _my son commissioned my servant against me to ambush me_ ^[Literally "my son has raised my servant against me to an ambush"] as _has been done_ this day!"

###### v9
But Doeg the Edomite, who _was_ stationed among the servants of Saul, answered and said, "I saw the son of Jesse going to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.

###### v10
And he inquired of Yahweh for him and gave him provisions and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."

###### v11
So the king sent to summon Ahimelech the son of Ahitub the priest, and all his father's household, the priests who _were_ at Nob. So all of them came to the king.

###### v12
Saul said, "Listen please, son of Ahitub." He said, "Here I _am_, my lord."

###### v13
Then Saul said to him, "Why did you conspire against me, you and the son of Jesse, when you gave to him bread and a sword, and by inquiring of God for him so that he might arise against me to ambush _me_ as _has been done_ this day?"

###### v14
But Ahimelech answered the king and said, "And who among all your servants _is_ as faithful as David? He _is_ the son-in-law of the king who moves _quickly_ to safeguard you and is honored in your house.

###### v15
_Only_ today I began to inquire of God for him. Far be it from me that _the king should impute anything against his servant_ ^[Literally "the king will not put against his servant a matter"] or against my father's household, for your servant has not known any of this matter, little or much."

###### v16
Then the king said, "You must certainly die, Ahimelech, you and all your father's household!"

###### v17
So the king said to the runners _who were_ stationed around him, "Turn and kill the priests of Yahweh, because _they also support David_ ^[Literally "also their hand _is_ with David"] and because they knew that he was fleeing and _did not disclose it to me_." ^[Literally "did not reveal it to his ear"; the Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "his," but the reading tradition (_Qere)_ has "my"] But the servants of the king _were_ not willing to raise their hand to attack the priests of Yahweh.

###### v18
Then the king said to Doeg, "You turn and attack the priests!" So Doeg the Edomite turned and attacked the priests himself, and on that day he killed eighty-five men who wore _the_ linen ephod.

###### v19
And _he put to the sword_ ^[Literally "he killed with _the_ mouth of _the_ sword"] Nob, the city of the priests, from man to woman, from child to infant, and ox and donkey and sheep; ^[Or "goats"; literally, "small livestock animals"] _all_ _to the sword_. ^[Literally "with _the_ mouth of _the_ sword"]

###### v20
But, one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.

###### v21
Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of Yahweh.

###### v22
Then David said to Abiathar, "I knew on that day that Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would certainly tell Saul. _I am responsible for the deaths of all your father's household_! ^[Literally "I have turned against all the life of your father's house"]

###### v23
Stay with me! Do not fear, because he who seeks my life seeks your life. You are in good care with me."