---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 23
---

[[1 Sam-22|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-24|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now they told David, "Look, _the_ Philistines _are_ fighting in Keilah and they _are_ raiding the threshing floors."

###### v2
So David inquired of Yahweh, saying, "Shall I go and attack these Philistines?" And Yahweh said to David, "Go and attack the Philistines and save ^[Or "deliver" or "rescue"] Keilah."

###### v3
But David's men said to him, "Look, we _are_ afraid here in Judah. _How much more_ ^[Literally "also for"] _if_ we go _to_ Keilah to the battle lines of _the_ Philistines?"

###### v4
So David again inquired of Yahweh, and Yahweh answered him and said, "Get up, go down _to_ Keilah, for I _am_ giving _the_ Philistines into your hand."

###### v5
So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with _the_ Philistines. They drove off their livestock and _dealt them a heavy blow_. ^[Literally "he struck them with a great smiting"] So David saved ^[Or "delivered" or "rescued"] the inhabitants of Keilah.

###### v6
_Now when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled_ ^[Literally "And it happened _that_ at the fleeing of Abiathar son of Ahimelech"] to David _at_ Keilah, he went down _with_ an ephod in his hand.

###### v7
When it was told to Saul that David had gone to Keilah, Saul said, "God _has given him_ ^[Literally "has made him a stranger"] into my hand, because he has shut himself in by going into a city _with_ _two barred gates_. ^[Literally "two gates and a bar"]

###### v8
Saul then summoned all of the army for the battle, to go down _to_ Keilah to lay a siege against David and his men.

###### v9
When David learned that Saul _was_ plotting evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."

###### v10
And David said, "O Yahweh, God of Israel, your servant has clearly heard that Saul _is_ seeking to come to Keilah to destroy the city because of me.

###### v11
Will the rulers of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down as your servant has heard? O Yahweh, God of Israel, please tell your servant!" And Yahweh said, "He will come down."

###### v12
Then David said, "Will the rulers of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" And Yahweh said, "They will deliver _you_."

###### v13
So David and his men got up, about six hundred men, and went out from Keilah and wandered wherever they could go. When it was told to Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, _he stopped his pursuit_. ^[Literally "he ceased to go out"]

###### v14
David remained in the wilderness, in the strongholds, and in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him _continually_, ^[Literally "all the days"] but God did not give him into his hand.

###### v15
When David realized that Saul had gone out to seek his life, David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Horesh.

###### v16
So Jonathan the son of Saul got up and went to David _at_ Horesh, and _encouraged him_ ^[Literally "he strengthened his hand"] through God.

###### v17
He said to him, "Do not be afraid, for the hand of my father Saul will not find you. You will be king over Israel, and _I will be second to you_. ^[Literally "I shall be for you as second"] My father Saul knows _this_ also."

###### v18
Then the two of them _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] a covenant before Yahweh. David remained at Horesh, and Jonathan went to his house.

###### v19
Then _the_ Ziphites went up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "_Is_ not David hiding among us in the strongholds at Horesh on the hill of Hakilah, which _is_ south of Jeshimon?

###### v20
So then, O king, _whenever you want_ ^[Literally "for all the wanting of your soul"] to come down, come down, and _it will be_ for us to deliver him into the hand of the king."

###### v21
And Saul said to them, "May you be blessed by Yahweh, for you have shown me compassion!

###### v22
Go, please, make certain again! Find out and see _exactly where he is_ ^[Literally "his place where his foot _is_"] and who has seen him there! For they have said to me, 'He _is_ very cunning.'

###### v23
Look, find out all of the hiding places where he hides. Then return to me _with dependable information_, ^[Literally "to being established"] and I will go with you. And then if he _is_ there in the land, then I will seek him among all the thousands of Judah."

###### v24
Then they got up and went to Ziph before Saul.
Now David and his men _were_ in the wilderness of Maon in the Arabah, to the south of Jeshimon.

###### v25
And Saul and his men went to seek _him_, and they told David, so he went down _to_ the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard _this_, he pursued David _into_ the wilderness of Maon.

###### v26
Saul went _on one side of the mountain_, ^[Literally "from the side of the mountain from this"] and David and his men _went on the other side of the mountain_. ^[Literally "from the side of the mountain from this"] David was hurrying to get away from Saul, while Saul and his men _were_ closing in on David and his men to capture them.

###### v27
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come, because _the_ Philistines have made a raid on the land!"

###### v28
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and he went to confront ^[Hebrew "to meet"] _the_ Philistines. Therefore, they called that place the Rock of Division. ^[Hebrew "Sela' Hammahlekot"]

###### v29
 ^[[[1 Sam-23#v29|1 Sam 23:29–24:22]] in the English Bible is 24:1–23 in the Hebrew Bible] David went up from there and stayed in the strongholds of En Gedi.