---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 8
---

[[1 Sam-07|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-09|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
When Samuel grew old he appointed his sons as judges over Israel.

###### v2
The name of his firstborn son _was_ Joel, and the name of his second son _was_ Abijah. _They were_ judges in Beersheba.

###### v3
But his sons did not walk in his ways; they turned aside after gain, they took bribes, and they perverted justice.

###### v4
So all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah.

###### v5
They said to him, "Look, you are old and your sons do not follow in your ways. So then appoint a king for us to judge ^[Or "to rule"] us, like all the nations.

###### v6
But the matter _was displeasing to Samuel_ ^[Literally "was evil in the eyes of Samuel"] when they said, "Give us a king to judge ^[Or "to rule"] us," so Samuel prayed to Yahweh.

###### v7
Then Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people concerning all that they say to you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them.

###### v8
Like all the deeds they have done from the day I brought them up from Egypt until this day, they have forsaken me and have served other gods--so they _are_ doing to you also.

###### v9
And so then, listen to their voice. However, you must earnestly warn them; you must explain to them the custom of the king who will rule over them."

###### v10
So Samuel spoke all the words of Yahweh to the people who _were_ requesting a king from him.

###### v11
He said, "This will be the custom of the king who will reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots and his horsemen, and they will run before his chariots.

###### v12
He will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and _those_ _to do his plowing_ ^[Literally "to plow his plowing"] and to reap his harvest, and _those_ to make weapons of war and the equipment for his chariots.

###### v13
He will take your daughters as _his_ perfume makers and as cooks and as bakers.

###### v14
He will take the best of your fields and your vineyards and your olive trees and will give _them_ to his servants.

###### v15
He will take a tenth of your seed and your vineyards and give _it_ to his high officials and to his servants.

###### v16
He will take your male slaves and your female slaves and the best of your young men ^[LXX reads "cattle"] and your donkeys and _will use them for his projects_. ^[Literally "will put _them_ to his work"]

###### v17
He will take a tenth of your flocks, ^[The Hebrew term refers collectively to both sheep and goats (small livestock animals)] and you _yourselves_ will become his servants.

###### v18
So you will cry out on that day because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, but Yahweh will not answer you on that day!"

###### v19
However, the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel and they said, "No, but there must be a king over us,

###### v20
so that we _also_ ^[Literally "even we"] may be like all the nations, and our king may rule us and go out before us and fight our battles."

###### v21
Now when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the ears of Yahweh.

###### v22
Then Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to their voice, and appoint a king for them." So Samuel spoke to the men of Israel, "Each of you go to his _own_ town."