---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 18
---

[[1 Sam-17|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-19|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_When_ ^[Literally "And it happened as"] he finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan became attached to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his _own_ soul.

###### v2
Saul took him on that _very_ day and did not allow him to return to his father's house.

###### v3
Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his _own_ soul.

###### v4
Jonathan stripped off the robe _that he was wearing_ ^[Literally "which _was_ on him"] and gave it to David, along with his fighting attire, ^[Hebrew "gown," in this context "fighting tunic," perhaps "armor"] and even his sword, his bow, and his belt.

###### v5
David went out _whenever_ ^[Literally "in all that"] Saul sent him, _and_ he succeeded. So Saul appointed him over the men of the war, and it _pleased_ ^[Literally "was good in the eyes of"] all the people and even _pleased_ ^[Literally "was good in the eyes of"] the servants of Saul.

###### v6
_When they were coming back_ ^[Literally "And it happened at their coming"] after David had returned from striking down the Philistine, the women went out from all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tambourines, with joy, and with three-stringed instruments.

###### v7
And the women sang as they danced, and they said,
"Saul has struck down his thousands,
but David his ten thousands!"

###### v8
_Saul became very angry_, ^[Literally "And it was very hot for Saul"] and _this saying displeased him_, ^[Literally "this thing was bad in his eyes"] and he thought, "They have attributed to David ten thousands, but to me they have attributed thousands! _What more can he have but the kingdom_?" ^[Literally "And still for him _is_ only the kingdom"]

###### v9
So Saul was watching ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "sin"; the translation follows the reading tradition (_Qere)_ which has "eyeing" or "watching"] David _with suspicion_ from that day onward.

###### v10
_On_ ^[Literally "And it happened from"] _the_ next day, the evil spirit from God rushed upon Saul, and he prophesied in the middle of the house. Now David was playing _the lyre_ with his hand on _that_ day _as usual_, ^[Literally "as day on day"] and the spear was in Saul's hand.

###### v11
Then Saul hurled the spear and thought, "_I will pin David to the wall_." ^[Literally "I will strike David and to the wall"] But David eluded him twice.

###### v12
_Now Saul was threatened by the presence of David_ ^[Literally "And Saul was afraid from the presence of David"] because Yahweh was with him, but had departed from Saul.

###### v13
So Saul removed him _from his presence_, ^[Literally "from with him"] and made him commander of a thousand, _so he ^[That is, David] marched in and out at the front of the army_. ^[Literally "for he _was_ going out and _was_ coming in before the army"]

###### v14
And David was achieving success in all his ways and Yahweh _was_ with him,

###### v15
but when Saul saw that he _was_ very successful, _he was severely threatened by him_. ^[Literally "he _was_ terrified from his face"]

###### v16
However, all of Israel and Judah _were_ loving David, for he was going forth and marching ahead of them.

###### v17
Then Saul said to David, "Here _is_ my older daughter Merab. I will give her to you as _your_ wife. Only be _a brave warrior_ ^[Literally "a son of valor"] for me and fight the battles of Yahweh." For Saul thought, "My hand will not be against him, but let the hand of _the_ Philistines be against him."

###### v18
But David said to Saul, "Who _am_ I, and _who are_ my relatives, the clan of my father in Israel, that I should be a son-in-law to the king?"

###### v19
_But_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] at the time Saul's daughter Merab _was_ to be given to David, she was given _instead_ to Adriel the Meholathite as wife.

###### v20
Now Saul's daughter Michal loved David, so they told Saul, and the matter _pleased him_. ^[Literally "was right in his eyes"]

###### v21
And Saul thought, "I will give her to him, so that she may be a snare for him and the hand of _the_ Philistines may be against him." So Saul said to David, "For a second _time_ you can become my son-in-law today."

###### v22
Then Saul commanded his servants, "Speak to David in secret, saying, 'Look, the king _is_ pleased with you, and all his servants love you. So then, become a son-in-law of the king.'"

###### v23
And Saul's servants spoke these words _to David privately_. ^[Literally "in the ears of David"] But David said, "_Is_ it insignificant _in your sight_ ^[Literally "in your eyes"] to become the son-in-law of the king, _as_ I am a poor and lightly esteemed man?"

###### v24
So the servants of Saul informed him, saying, "_This is what David said_." ^[Literally "According to these words David spoke"]

###### v25
Then Saul said, "This _is_ what you must say to David: '_The king desires no bride price_ ^[Literally "There _is_ not a desire for the king for a bride price"] except for a hundred foreskins of _the_ Philistines, to avenge himself on the enemies of the king.'" (Now Saul had planned to allow David to fall by the hand of _the_ Philistines.)

###### v26
So his servants told David these words, and the matter _pleased David_ ^[Literally "was right in the eyes of David"] to become the son-in-law of the king _as_ _the specified time had not expired_. ^[Literally "the days were not full"]

###### v27
And David got up, and he and his men went and struck down two hundred men _of the_ Philistines. Then David brought their foreskins, and _they presented the full number_ ^[Literally "they filled them up"] to become the king's son-in-law. Then Saul gave him Michal his daughter as _his_ wife.

###### v28
When Saul _realized_ ^[Literally "saw and knew"] that Yahweh _was_ with David and _his own daughter Michal_ ^[Literally "Michal the daughter of Saul"] loved him,

###### v29
Saul _was threatened by David still more_, ^[Literally "added to be afraid from the presence of David"] so Saul _became a perpetual enemy of David_. ^[Literally "was an enemy with David all the days"]

###### v30
Then the commanders of _the_ Philistines went out _for battle_, and as often as they went out, David succeeded more than all the servants of Saul, and his name became very esteemed.