---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 24
---

[[1 Sam-23|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-25|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
When Saul returned from _pursuing the_ Philistines, they told him, "Look, David _is_ in the wilderness of En Gedi."

###### v2
So Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel, and he and his men went to search _for_ David _in the direction of_ ^[Literally "on the face of"] the Rocks of the Mountain Goats. ^[Hebrew "of the Jael"]

###### v3
He came to the sheep pens beside the road, and a cave _was_ there. Then Saul went in _to relieve himself_. ^[Literally "to cover his feet"] Now David and his men _were_ sitting in the innermost part of the cave.

###### v4
And David's men said to him, "Look, today _is_ the day about which Yahweh said to you, 'See, I am giving your enemy ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "enemies," but the reading tradition (_Qere)_ has the singular "enemy"] into your hand, and you can do to him _whatever seems good to you_.'" ^[Literally "as that _which is_ good in your eyes"] So David got up and secretly cut the hem of Saul's robe.

###### v5
_And then_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] afterward David _felt guilty_, ^[Literally "the heart of David struck him"] because he had cut _the hem of Saul's robe_. ^[Literally "the hem which _was_ for Saul"]

###### v6
He said to his men, "Far be it from me in ^[Hebrew "from"] Yahweh, that I do this thing to my lord, to Yahweh's anointed one, by stretching out my hand against him! For he _is_ the anointed one of Yahweh."

###### v7
So David rebuked his men with the words and did not allow them to rise against Saul. And Saul got up from the cave, and he went on his ^[Hebrew "the"] way.

###### v8
Then David got up afterward and went out of the cave and called after Saul, "My lord the king!" When Saul looked after him, David knelt down _with his_ face to the ground and bowed down.

###### v9
Then David said to Saul, "Why do you listen to the words of people who say: 'Look, David _is_ _seeking to do you harm_'? ^[Literally "seeking your evil"]

###### v10
Look, this day your eyes have seen that Yahweh gave you today into my hand in the cave, and some said to kill you. But _I took pity_ ^[Literally "she took pity," with "she" = "my eye," a common Hebrew expression] on you and said, 'I will not stretch out my hand against my lord, because he _is_ Yahweh's anointed one.'

###### v11
Now, my father, see, yes, see, the hem of your robe in my hand! For _when I cut_ ^[Literally "at my cutting"] the hem of your robe I did not kill you. Know and _realize_ ^[Literally "see"] that there is no evil or rebellion in my hand. I did not sin against you, but you _are_ hunting down my life to take it.

###### v12
May Yahweh judge between me and you, and may Yahweh avenge me on you, but my hand will not be against you!

###### v13
Just as the ancient proverb says, 'From the wicked, wickedness goes out,' but my hand will not be against you!

###### v14
After whom did the king of Israel go out? After whom are you pursuing? After a dead dog? After one flea?

###### v15
May Yahweh be _the_ judge, and let him judge between me and you, and may he see and plead my case. _May he vindicate me against you_!" ^[Literally "May he judge me from your hand"]

###### v16
When David finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, "_Is_ this your voice, my son David?" And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.

###### v17
Then he said to David, "You are more righteous than I, for you have repaid me the good, but I have repaid you the evil.

###### v18
You have explained to me today that you have dealt well with me, how ^[Hebrew "that"] Yahweh delivered me into your hand but you did not kill me.

###### v19
For a man has found his enemy but sent him on _his_ way safely. Now may Yahweh reward you with good in return for this day, for what you have done for me.

###### v20
So now then, look, I know that you will certainly be king and the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hand.

###### v21
So then, swear to me by Yahweh that you will not cut off my _descendants_ ^[Literally "seed"] after me and that you will not wipe out my name from my father's house."

###### v22
So David swore _this on oath_ to Saul, and Saul went to his house, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.