---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 11
---

[[1 Sam-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now Nahash the Ammonite went up and encamped against Jabesh Gilead. All the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, "_Make a treaty with us_ ^[Literally "Cut with us a covenant"] and we will serve you."

###### v2
But Nahash the Ammonite said to them, "On this _condition_ _I will make a treaty_ ^[Literally "I will cut"] with you, by gouging out the right eye of each of you, so that I can make it a disgrace for all Israel."

###### v3
So the elders of Jabesh said to him, "Leave us alone for seven days so that we may send messengers in all the territory of Israel, and if there _is_ no deliverer for us, then we will come out to you."

###### v4
When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, _they reported these things to_ ^[Literally "they spoke the words in the ears of"] the people. Then all the people lifted up their voices and wept.

###### v5
_Just then_, ^[Literally "And look/behold"] Saul was coming from the field behind the cattle. Saul said, "What _is the matter_ with the people, that they _are_ weeping?" So they recounted to him the words of the men of Jabesh.

###### v6
Then the Spirit of God rushed upon Saul when he heard these words, and _he became very angry_. ^[Literally "his nose became very hot"]

###### v7
So he took a yoke of oxen and cut them into pieces and sent _them_ throughout all the territory of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, "Whoever _is_ not going out after Saul and after Samuel, so will it be done to his oxen." Then the fear of Yahweh fell on the people and they went out as one man.

###### v8
He mustered them at Bezek; the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] _were_ three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah _were_ thirty thousand.

###### v9
They said to the messengers who had come, "Thus you will say to the men of Jabesh Gilead: 'Tomorrow deliverance for you will come _when the sun is hot_.'" ^[Literally "at the heating of the sun"] When the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, they rejoiced.

###### v10
The men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we will come out to you and you may do to us _whatever seems good to you_." ^[Literally "as all _of_ the good _that is_ in your eyes"]

###### v11
_And the_ ^[Literally "and it happened the"] next day Saul placed the people _in_ three divisions. Then they came into the middle of the camp _at the early morning watch_ ^[Literally "at the night watch of the morning"] and struck down _the Ammonites_ ^[Literally "Ammon"] until the heat of the day. It happened that the remainder were scattered _so that no two among them remained together_. ^[Literally "and they did not remain among them two together"]

###### v12
Then the people said to Samuel, "Who _is_ the one who asked, 'Will Saul reign over us?' Give the men to us that we may kill them."

###### v13
But Saul said, "No one will be put to death on this day, because _today_ ^[Literally "the day"] Yahweh has provided deliverance in Israel."

###### v14
Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, let us go to Gilgal, and let us renew the kingship there."

###### v15
So all the people went to Gilgal and they made Saul king there before Yahweh in Gilgal. They sacrificed fellowship offerings there before Yahweh. Then Saul rejoiced there greatly _along with_ all the men of Israel.