---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 1
---

[[1 Sam-02|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
There was a certain man from Ramathaim Zophim, from the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite. ^[Or "Ephrathite"]

###### v2
He had two wives; the name of the first _was_ Hannah, and the name of the second _was_ Peninnah. Now Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.

###### v3
Now this man used to go up from his town _year by year_ ^[Literally "from days to days"] to worship and to sacrifice to Yahweh of hosts in Shiloh, _where_ ^[Literally "and there"] the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, _were_ priests to Yahweh.

###### v4
_On_ ^[Literally "And it happened on"] the day Elkanah sacrificed, he would give portions to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and daughters.

###### v5
But to Hannah he would give _a double portion_, ^[Literally "a portion of two faces"] because he loved Hannah, though Yahweh had closed her womb.

###### v6
(Now her rival wife would provoke her severely in order to upset her because Yahweh had closed her womb.)

###### v7
And so he used to do ^[So Hebrew; because of the abrupt change of subject some revocalize the verb to read "it used to be"] year after year; _whenever_ ^[Or "as often as"; literally "from enough"] she went up to the house of Yahweh, she ^[That is, Penninah] would provoke her so that she ^[That is, Hannah] would weep and would not eat.

###### v8
So Elkanah her husband would say to her: "Hannah, why do you weep and why do you not eat? And _why are you heartsick_? ^[Literally "why _is_ your heart evil"] Am I not better to you than ten sons?"

###### v9
Then Hannah got up after eating and drinking at Shiloh. (Now Eli the priest _was_ sitting on his chair by the doorpost of the temple ^[This is not the temple of Solomon (ca. 966 bc), but rather the tabernacle that first resided at Shiloh after the conquest of Joshua.] of Yahweh.)

###### v10
She _was_ _deeply troubled_, ^[Literally "bitter of soul"] so she prayed to Yahweh and wept bitterly.

###### v11
She _made a vow_ ^[Literally "vowed a vow"] and said: "O Yahweh of hosts, if you will look with compassion on the misery of your female servant, and will remember me, and not forget your female servant, and will give to your female servant _a male child_ ^[Literally "an offspring of men"] then I will give him to Yahweh all the days of his life, and a razor will never pass over his head." ^["A razor will never pass over his head" indicates that Hannah promised to dedicate her son to Yahweh as a Nazirite, according to the terms of Num 6:1–21]

###### v12
_While_ ^[Literally "And it happened that when"] she continued to pray before Yahweh, Eli was observing her mouth.

###### v13
Now Hannah had been speaking in her heart; her lips _were_ moving, but her voice could not be heard, so Eli considered her _to be_ drunk.

###### v14
Then Eli said to her, "How long will you behave like someone _who is_ drunk? Put away your wine!"

###### v15
But Hannah answered and said, "No, my lord. I am a woman _deeply distressed_, ^[Literally "difficult of spirit"] but I have not drunk wine _or_ strong drink. _Rather_, I have poured out my soul before Yahweh.

###### v16
Do not regard your female servant as _worthless_, ^[Literally "as a daughter of Belial/daughter of worthlessness"] but because of the extent of my worries and my provocation I have spoken all of this."

###### v17
Then Eli answered and said, "Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant your request that you have asked of him."

###### v18
And she said, "May your female slave find favor in your sight." Then the woman went on her way and ate _something_, and _her face did not look sad any longer_. ^[Literally "her faces were not for her _any_ longer"]

###### v19
Then they rose early in the morning and worshiped before Yahweh _and returned_ ^[Literally "and they returned and went"] to their house at Ramah. Then Elkanah _had sexual relations with_ ^[Literally "knew"] Hannah his wife, and Yahweh remembered her.

###### v20
_In due time_, ^[Literally "At the turning of the days"] Hannah conceived and gave birth to a son. She called his name Samuel, for _she said_, "I requested him from Yahweh."

###### v21
So the man Elkanah went up with all his household _to make the annual sacrifice_ ^[Literally "to sacrifice the sacrifice of days"] to Yahweh and _to pay_ his vow.

###### v22
But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, "Once the boy _is_ weaned, I will bring him, so that he may appear before Yahweh; and he will remain there forever."

###### v23
So her husband Elkanah said to her, "_Do what seems right to you_; ^[Literally "do what _is_ good in your eyes"] stay until you wean him. Only may Yahweh fulfill his word." So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him.

###### v24
Then she brought him up with her when she had weaned him, _along_ with three bulls, one ephah of flour, and a skin ^[Or "a _clay_ jar"] of wine. She brought him to the house of Yahweh at Shiloh while the boy _was still_ young.

###### v25
They slaughtered the bull, and they brought the boy to Eli.

###### v26
She said, "Excuse me, my lord. As _you live_, ^[Literally "your soul lives"] my lord, I _am_ the woman who stood with you in this _place_ to pray to Yahweh.

###### v27
I prayed for this boy, and Yahweh has given me my request that I asked from him.

###### v28
I in turn have lent him to Yahweh. _As long as he lives_ ^[Literally "All the days that he lives"] he _is_ lent to Yahweh." Then they worshiped Yahweh there.