---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 14
---

[[1 Sam-13|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-15|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_One day_ ^[Literally "And it happened the day"] Jonathan the son of Saul said to _his armor bearer_, ^[Literally "the young man carrying his weapons"] "Come and let us go over to the garrison of _the_ Philistines which _is_ over there." But he did not tell his father.

###### v2
Now Saul _was_ staying at the outskirts of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree that _was_ in Migron, and the troops that _were_ with him _were_ about six hundred men.

###### v3
Now Ahijah, the son of Ahitub (the brother of Ichabod), the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli the priest of Yahweh at Shiloh, was carrying an ephod. The troops did not know that Jonathan had gone.

###### v4
Now between the passes where Jonathan sought to go over to the garrison of _the_ Philistines _there was_ a crag of rock _on one side_ ^[Literally "from the beyond from this"] and a crag of rock _on the other_. ^[Literally "from the beyond from this"] The name of the one _was_ Bozez and the name of the other _was_ Seneh.

###### v5
The one crag on the north _was_ opposite Micmash and the other on the south _was_ opposite Geba.

###### v6
So Jonathan said to _his armor bearer_, ^[Literally "the young man carrying his weapons"] "Come, let us go over to the garrisons of these uncircumcised; perhaps Yahweh will act for us, for there is no hindrance for Yahweh to save by many or by few."

###### v7
And _his armor bearer_ ^[Literally "_the one_ carrying his weapons"] said, "Do all that _is_ in your heart _that you are inclined to do_. ^[Literally "turn/incline for yourself"] _I am with you all of the way_! ^[Literally "Behold, I am with you according to your heart"]

###### v8
Then Jonathan said, "Look, we _are about to_ go over to the men; and we will show ourselves to them.

###### v9
If they say to us: 'Wait until we reach you,' _then we will stand as we are_ ^[Literally "and we will stand under us"] and not go up to them.

###### v10
But if they say, 'Come up to us,' then we will go up, for Yahweh has given them into our hand, and this _will be_ the sign for us."

###### v11
So the two of them showed themselves to the garrison of _the_ Philistines, and _the_ Philistines said, "The Hebrews _are_ coming out from the holes in which they have hidden themselves."

###### v12
Then the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and _his armor bearer_, ^[Literally "_the one_ carrying his weapons"] "Come up to us and we will show you something!" Then Jonathan said to _his armor bearer_, ^[Literally "_the one_ carrying his weapons"] "Come up after me, for Yahweh has given them into the hand of Israel!"

###### v13
So Jonathan went up on his hands and his feet, with _his armor bearer_ ^[Literally "_the one_ carrying his weapons"] after him. They fell before Jonathan and then _his armor bearer_ ^[Literally "_the one_ carrying his weapons"] would kill them after him.

###### v14
So was the first attack _in_ which Jonathan and _his armor bearer_ ^[Literally "_the one_ carrying his weapons"] killed about twenty men within about half of a furrow in an acre of _an_ open field.

###### v15
Then there was terror ^[Or "panic"] in the camp, in the open field, and among all the army of the garrison. Even the _raiders_ ^[Literally "destroyers"] trembled. The earth shook, and it became _a very great panic_. ^[Literally "like the panic/terror of God"; some interpreters understand this to be a panic caused by God, while others understand the expression merely as a superlative ("a very great panic")]

###### v16
And the lookouts of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw _that_ ^[Literally "and look"] the multitude _surged back and forth_. ^[Literally "waved, going here and there"]

###### v17
Saul said to the troops that _were_ with him, "Please call the roll and see who has gone from us." So they called the roll _and found that_ ^[Literally "and look"] Jonathan and _his armor bearer_ ^[Literally "_the one_ carrying his weapons"] were not _present_.

###### v18
Then Saul said to Ahijah, "Bring near the ark of God" ^[LXX reads "bring near the ephod"] (for the ark of God was _at that time_ ^[Literally "on that day"] with the _Israelites_). ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"]

###### v19
While ^[Hebrew "And"] Saul was still speaking to the priest, the tumult in the camp of _the_ Philistines _increased more and more_, ^[Literally "and it went, going and increasing"] so Saul said to the priest, "Withdraw your hand!"

###### v20
Then Saul and all the troops who were with him were assembled on command and came up to the battle, and look! Each _Philistine's_ sword _was_ against his friend; _and there was_ a very great confusion.

###### v21
The Hebrews who had been for _the_ Philistines _previously_, ^[Literally "as yesterday three days ago"] who had gone up with them into the camp all around, even they _joined the Israelites_ ^[Literally "were with Israel"] who were with Saul and Jonathan.

###### v22
All the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard that _the_ Philistines had fled, so even they pursued them closely in the battle.

###### v23
So on that day Yahweh delivered Israel, and the battle shifted to Beth Aven.

###### v24
Now the men of Israel were hard pressed on that day, because Saul had made the army take an oath, saying, "Cursed be the man who eats _any_ food until evening, when I will have avenged myself on my enemies!" So none of the army tasted _any_ food.

###### v25
(Now all _the people of_ the land used to go into the forest, for there was honey on the surface of the ground.)

###### v26
When the army came to the forest, look! _There was_ honey flowing, but no one put his hand to his mouth, for the army was afraid of the solemn oath.

###### v27
However, Jonathan had not heard about the oath of his father with the army, so he extended the end of the staff which was in his hand, and he dipped it into the honeycomb. ^[Hebrew "the honeycomb of the honey"] Then he put his hand to his mouth and his eyes gleamed. ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "saw"; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ reads "gleamed"]

###### v28
Then a man from the army informed _him_ and said, "Your father made the army swear a solemn _oath_, saying, 'Cursed be the man who eats food today,'" so the army _is_ exhausted.

###### v29
Then Jonathan said, "My father has brought trouble on the land! See now that my eyes have brightened because I have tasted a little of this honey.

###### v30
_How much more could have been done_ ^[Literally "even that if"] if the troops had eaten freely today from the plunder of their enemies that they had found! For now the loss among _the_ Philistines _is_ not great."

###### v31
They defeated _the_ Philistines that day from Micmash to Aijalon, and the troops were very weary.

###### v32
Then the troops took the plunder: they took sheep and cattle and _calves_ ^[Literally "the children of cattle"] and slaughtered _them_ on the ground and the troops ate _them all_ with the blood.

###### v33
So they reported _it_ to Saul, saying, "Look! The troops _are_ sinning against Yahweh by eating _the animals_ with the blood!" And he said, "You have dealt treacherously! Roll to me a large stone _today_!" ^[Literally "the day"]

###### v34
Then Saul said, "Disperse _yourselves_ among the troops and say to them, 'Bring to me each _one_ his ox and each his sheep and slaughter them in this _place_ and eat, but do not sin against Yahweh by eating _the animals_ with the blood.'" So all the troops brought _them_, each _leading_ his ox in his hand that night, and slaughtered _it_ there.

###### v35
Then Saul built an altar to Yahweh; _it was the first altar he built_ ^[Literally "with it he began to build an altar"] to Yahweh.

###### v36
Saul said, "Let us go down after _the_ Philistines _by_ night, and let us plunder them until the morning light, and let us not leave _alive_ a man among them." So they said, "Do all that _is_ good in your eyes." But the priest said, "Let us draw near to God here."

###### v37
So Saul inquired of God, "Should I go down after _the_ Philistines? Will you give them into the hand of Israel?" But he did not answer him on that day.

###### v38
Then Saul said, "Come here, all _you_ leaders of the people, _so that we find out_ ^[Literally "and know and see"] what the sin was this day.

###### v39
For as Yahweh lives, who delivers Israel, _I swear_ that even if it _is_ in Jonathan my son, _he will certainly die_!" ^[Literally "surely dying he will die"] But nobody from all the army answered him.

###### v40
Then he said to all Israel, "You will be _on one side_, ^[Literally "opposite one"] and I and my son Jonathan will be _on the other_." ^[Literally "opposite one"] And the army said to Saul, "Do _what is_ good in your eyes."

###### v41
Then Saul said to Yahweh the God of Israel, "_Render a decision perfectly_." ^[Literally "give _what is_ perfect"; the LXX includes additional words not found in the Masoretic Hebrew text but included in a number of modern English versions: "If this guilt _is_ on me or in my son Jonathan, give Urim, but if this guilt _is_ in your people Israel, give Thummim"] Jonathan and Saul were chosen _by lot_ and the people went out.

###### v42
Then Saul said, "Let them cast _the lot_ between me and my son Jonathan," and Jonathan was chosen.

###### v43
So Saul said, "Tell me what you have done." So Jonathan told him and said, "I _merely tasted_ ^[Literally "tasted I tasted"] a little honey with the end of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am, I must die."

###### v44
Then Saul said, "So may God do _to me_ and _more_, ^[Literally "so may he add"] you will certainly die today, Jonathan!"

###### v45
But the army said to Saul, "Must Jonathan die, who accomplished this great victory in Israel? Far from it! As Yahweh lives, not a hair from his head will fall to the ground, for he has worked with God this day." So the army ransomed Jonathan and he did not die.

###### v46
Saul went up from _pursuing the_ Philistines, and _the_ Philistines went to their place.

###### v47
So Saul took the kingship over Israel, and he fought all around against his enemies, against Moab, against the _Ammonites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. He inflicted punishment against all who rebelled.

###### v48
He acted bravely and defeated _the_ Amalekites and rescued Israel from the hand of those who plundered it.

###### v49
Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malki-Shua; the names of his two daughters _were as follows_: the name of the firstborn _was_ Merab and the younger _was_ Michal.

###### v50
The name of Saul's wife _was_ Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the commander of his army _was_ Abner, the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.

###### v51
Now Kish _was_ the father of Saul, but Ner, the father of Abner, _was_ the son of Abiel.

###### v52
Warfare was severe against _the_ Philistines all the days of Saul. Whenever Saul saw _anyone who was a mighty warrior_ ^[Literally "each man who _was_ a mighty warrior"] or _any brave man_, ^[Literally "each son of ability"] he _conscripted him into his service_. ^[Literally "he gathered him to him_self_"]