---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 6
---

[[1 Sam-05|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-07|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now the ark of Yahweh had been in the territory of _the_ Philistines _for_ seven months,

###### v2
and _the_ Philistines called to the priests and to those who practiced divination, saying, "What should we do with the ark of Yahweh? Inform us how we should send it to its place."

###### v3
They said, "If you _are_ sending the ark of the God of Israel away, you must not send it away empty, but by all means return it with a guilt offering. Then you will be healed and it will become known to you why his hand _is_ not turned aside from you."

###### v4
And they said, "What _is_ the guilt offering that we should return to him?" They said, "The number of the rulers of _the_ Philistines _is_ five. Therefore send five gold tumors ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "boils"; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ has "tumors"] and five gold mice, because one plague _was_ on all of you and all your rulers.

###### v5
You must make images of your tumors ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "boils"; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ has "tumors"] and images of your mice that _are_ ravaging the land, and you must give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand on you and on your gods and on your land.

###### v6
Why should you harden your hearts like _the_ Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? Is it not just like when he dealt with them wantonly so that they sent them away and they left?

###### v7
So then, _prepare_ ^[Literally "take and make"] one new utility cart and two milking cows that have never had a yoke on them, and you must harness the cows to the utility cart and then turn their calves from following them to their stall.

###### v8
And you must take the ark of Yahweh and place it on the utility cart with the gold objects that you _are_ returning to him as a guilt offering. You must place _them_ in the container ^[Or perhaps "chest" or "bag"] beside _the ark_ and then send it _off_ so that it goes away.

###### v9
You must watch; if it goes up by the way of its territory to Beth Shemesh, he has caused this great disaster to _come on_ us. But if not, then we will know his hand has not struck us; it _was by_ chance _that_ this happened to us.

###### v10
So the men did so; they took two milking cows and harnessed them to the utility cart, but they shut up their calves in the stall.

###### v11
Then they put the ark of Yahweh on the utility cart with the container ^[Or perhaps "chest" or "bag"] _holding_ the gold mice and the images of their tumors.

###### v12
The cows went straight on the way on the road to Beth Shemesh, on the one main road, _lowing as they went_. ^[Literally "they went going and lowing"] They did not turn aside to the right or to the left, and the rulers of _the_ Philistines _were_ walking after them up to the border of Beth Shemesh.

###### v13
Now _the people of_ Beth Shemesh _were_ reaping the wheat harvest in the valley. They lifted their eyes and saw the ark, and they were glad to see _it_.

###### v14
The utility cart came to the field of Joshua _of_ Beth Shemesh and stopped there where there _was_ a large stone. They split the wood of the utility cart and sacrificed the cows _as_ a burnt offering to Yahweh.

###### v15
Then the Levites took down the ark of Yahweh and the container ^[Or perhaps "chest" or "bag"] that was beside it, in which _were_ the gold objects, and _they_ set them on the large stone. ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text reads "Abel" here; some Hebrew manuscripts and LXX read "stone" (see 6:14–15)] Then the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings, and they _made_ ^[Literally "sacrificed"] sacrifices to Yahweh on that day.

###### v16
The five rulers of _the_ Philistines saw _it_ and returned _to_ Ekron that _same_ day.

###### v17
Now these _are_ the gold tumors which _the_ Philistines returned _as_ a guilt offering to Yahweh: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron.

###### v18
And the gold mice _according to_ the number of all the cities of _the_ Philistines, for their five rulers, from _the_ fortified city to the unwalled village of the open country as far as the great stone, _where they set_ ^[Literally "which they set down on it"] the ark of Yahweh until this day in the field of Joshua _of_ Beth Shemesh.

###### v19
He ^[That is, Yahweh] struck seventy men ^[Though the MT has "seventy men, fifty thousand men" (= 50,070), it is likely the original was "seventy men"] among the men of Beth Shemesh because they looked into the ark of Yahweh. So the people mourned because Yahweh had struck a great blow among the people.

###### v20
Then the men of Beth Shemesh asked, "Who _is_ able to stand before Yahweh, this holy God? And to whom shall it ^[That is, the ark of the covenant (alternatively read as "he," referring to Yahweh)] go up from us?"

###### v21
So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim saying, "_The_ Philistines have returned the ark of Yahweh. Come down and take it up to yourselves."