---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 28
---

[[1 Sam-27|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-29|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_Now_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] in those days _the_ Philistines gathered their forces for war to fight against Israel. So Achish said to David, "Certainly you realize that you must go out with me in the army, you and your men."

###### v2
David said to Achish, "Very well, you will know what your servant can do." Achish said to David, "Very well, I will make you _my bodyguard_ ^[Literally "the keeper of my head"] for life."

###### v3
(Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him, and they had buried him in Ramah, his _own_ city. And Saul had expelled the mediums ^[Or "necromancers"] and the soothsayers from the land.)

###### v4
Then _the_ Philistines assembled and came and encamped at Shunem, so Saul assembled all Israel, and they encamped at Gilboa.

###### v5
When Saul saw the army of _the_ Philistines, he was afraid and his heart trembled greatly.

###### v6
And Saul inquired of Yahweh, but Yahweh did not answer him, not by dreams or by the Urim ^[A device for revealing God's decisions; see Exod 28:30; Num 27:21; Neh 7:65; Prov 16:33] or by the prophets.

###### v7
So Saul said to his servants, "Search for me _a woman who is a medium_ ^[Literally "a woman of an owner of a spirit of the dead" (= "a woman who owns a ritual pit for summoning spirits of the dead")] so that I may go to her and inquire of her." His servants said to him, "Look _there is_ a woman who _is_ a medium in Endor."

###### v8
So Saul disguised himself and put on other clothes, and he went _with two of his men_. ^[Literally "and two of _his_ men with him"] And they came to the woman _by_ night and he said, "Please consult a spirit for me through _the ritual pit_, ^[Literally "the spirit of the dead"] and bring up for me _the one_ whom I tell you."

###### v9
But the woman said to him, "Look, you know what Saul did, how he exterminated the mediums ^[Or "necromancers"] and the soothsayers from the land! Why _are_ you setting a trap for my life to kill me?"

###### v10
Then Saul swore to her by Yahweh, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] _you will not be punished_ ^[Literally "guilt will not meet you"] for this thing."

###### v11
So the woman asked, "Whom shall I bring up for you?" He said, "Bring up Samuel for me."

###### v12
When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and the woman said to Saul, "Why did you deceive me? You _are_ Saul!"

###### v13
The king said to her, "Do not be afraid! What do you see?" And the woman said to Saul, "I see a god ^[Or "a divine being"] coming up from the ground!"

###### v14
Then he said to her, "What _is_ his appearance?" She said, "An old man _is_ coming up, and _he is wrapped in a robe_." ^[Literally "he _is_ wrapping himself _with_ a robe"] Then Saul realized that it was Samuel, and he knelt _with_ his face to the ground and bowed down.

###### v15
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?" And Saul said, "_I am in distress_! ^[Literally "Great distress _is_ for me"] For _the_ Philistines _are about_ to make war against me, but God has turned away from me, and he does not answer me any more, not _by the prophets_ ^[Literally "by the hand of the prophets"] or by the dreams. So I called to you to let me know what I should do."

###### v16
Then Samuel said, "Why do you ask me, since Yahweh has turned away from you and has become your enemy?

###### v17
Yahweh has done to you just as he spoke by my hand! Yahweh has torn the kingdom from your hand and has given it to your neighbor, to David.

###### v18
Because you _did not obey_ ^[Literally "did not listen to"] Yahweh and did not carry out the fierce anger of his _wrath_ ^[Literally "face"] against Amalek, therefore Yahweh has done this thing to you today.

###### v19
And Yahweh will also give Israel with you into the hands of _the_ Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons _will be_ with me, and Yahweh will also give the army of Israel into _the_ hand of _the_ Philistines."

###### v20
_Then Saul immediately fell prostrate_ ^[Literally "Saul did at once and fell _with_ the fullness of his height"] to the ground, and he was very afraid because of the words of Samuel; there was no more strength in him, for he had not eaten food all day and all night.

###### v21
Then the woman came to Saul and realized that he was absolutely ^[Hebrew "very"] terrified, so she said to him, "Look, your female servant _has obeyed you_, ^[Literally "has listened to your voice"] and I have _risked my life_. ^[Literally "I have put my life in my palm"] I have listened to your words that you have spoken to me.

###### v22
So then, you also please listen to the voice of your female servant, and let me set before you a morsel of bread, and _you_ eat so that _you will have strength_ ^[Literally "it will be your strength"] in you when you go on your ^[Hebrew "the"] way."

###### v23
But he refused and said, "I will not eat!" However, his servants urged him, and the woman also. So he listened _to what they said_, ^[Literally "their voice"] and he got up from the ground and sat on the bed.

###### v24
Now the woman had a fattened bull calf in the house, _so she quickly slaughtered it_ ^[Literally "and she did quickly and she slaughtered it"] and took flour, kneaded _dough_, and baked him _some_ unleavened bread.

###### v25
She brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they got up and went away that _very_ night.