---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 12
---

[[1 Sam-11|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-13|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Samuel said to all Israel, "Look, I have listened to your voice regarding all that you have said to me, so I have set a king over you.

###### v2
And so then here _is_ the king walking about before you. Now I am old and gray, but my sons (look at them!) _are_ with you; and I have walked about before you from my youth until this day.

###### v3
Here I am! Testify against me before Yahweh and before his anointed one! Whose ox have I taken? Or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I exploited? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I taken a bribe, that I may shut my eyes _regarding_ ^[Literally "with"] him?–then I will restore it to you."

###### v4
Then they said, "You have not exploited us or oppressed us, and you have not taken anything from the hand of anyone."

###### v5
So he said to them, "Yahweh _is_ witness against you, and his anointed one _is_ witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand." Then they said, "_He is_ witness."

###### v6
Then Samuel said to the people, "Yahweh _is witness_, who appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought your ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] up from the land of Egypt.

###### v7
So then take your stand, so that I may judge you before Yahweh with _regard to_ all the _deeds of_ justice ^[Or "righteous _deeds_"] of Yahweh that he performed with both you and your ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v8
"When Jacob came to Egypt, your ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] cried out to Yahweh, so he sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] out from Egypt and settled them in this place.

###### v9
But they forgot Yahweh their God, so he sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the hosts of Hazor, and into the hand of _the_ Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.

###### v10
So they cried out to Yahweh and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken Yahweh and have served the Baals ^[Hebrew plural "Be'alim" (Ba'al was a major Canaanite deity)] and the Ashtoreths. ^[Hebrew plural "Ashtoroth" (Ashtoreth was the female consort of Ba'al)] But now deliver us from the hand of our enemies and we will serve you!'

###### v11
So Yahweh sent Jerub-Baal and Bedan ^[Many English translations follow the LXX here and read "Barak"] and Jephthah and Samuel. Then he delivered you from the hand of your enemies all around, and you lived _in_ security.

###### v12
"And when you saw that Nahash, the king of _the_ _Ammonites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] was coming against you, you said to me, 'No! A king shall reign over us,' although Yahweh your God _is_ your king.

###### v13
So then look! _Here is_ the king you have chosen, for whom you have asked! Look, Yahweh has placed a king over you!

###### v14
If you will fear Yahweh, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not be rebellious against _what Yahweh says_, ^[Literally "the mouth of Yahweh"] and both you and the king who rules over you will _follow_ after Yahweh your God, _all will be well_.

###### v15
But, if you do not listen to the voice of Yahweh, and you rebel against _what Yahweh says_, ^[Literally "the mouth of Yahweh"] then the hand of Yahweh will be against you ^[Here LXX reads "against you and against your king"] _as it was_ against your ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v16
So then take your stand again and see this great thing that Yahweh _is going to_ do before your eyes.

###### v17
_Is_ the wheat harvest not today? I will call out to Yahweh so that he still sends thunder and rain, so that you will know and will see that your wickedness _is_ great that you have done in the eyes of Yahweh by asking for a king for yourselves."

###### v18
So Samuel called out to Yahweh, and Yahweh brought thunder and rain that _same_ day, so all the people feared Yahweh and Samuel greatly.

###### v19
Then all the people said to Samuel, "Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God so that we will not die, because we have added to all our sins by requesting a king for ourselves."

###### v20
And Samuel said to the people, "Do not fear! You have done all this evil; only do not turn aside from _following_ ^[Literally "after"] Yahweh. But you must serve Yahweh with all your heart.

###### v21
And do not turn aside after the triviality, ^[That is, the triviality of lifeless idols. The same Hebrew word, _tohu_, is used in Genesis 1:2 to describe the pre-created state of the earth.] which have no value and cannot deliver, for they are triviality.

###### v22
For Yahweh will not forsake his people for the sake of his great name, because Yahweh has decided to make you his _own_ people.

###### v23
Also, as for me, far be it from me _that I should sin_ ^[Literally "from sinning"] against Yahweh by ceasing to pray for you! I will instruct you in the good and righteous way.

###### v24
Only fear Yahweh and serve him faithfully with all of your heart. For consider _what great things he has done for you_. ^[Literally "what he made great with you"]

###### v25
But if you continue to do wickedness, both you and your king will be swept away."