---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 29
---

[[1 Sam-28|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-30|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now _the_ Philistines assembled all their forces at Aphek, and Israel _was_ encamped at the spring that _is_ in Jezreel.

###### v2
The rulers of _the_ Philistines _were_ passing on according to hundreds and thousands, David and his men passing on at the rear with Achish.

###### v3
Then the commanders of _the_ Philistines said, "What _are_ these Hebrews _doing here_?" And Achish said to the commanders of _the_ Philistines, "Is this not David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who has been with me _for days and years_? ^[Literally "these days or these years"] I have not found anything _threatening_ in him from the day of his desertion until this day!"

###### v4
But the commanders of _the_ Philistines were angry with him and they said to him, "Send the man back so that he might return to his place where you have assigned him! But he will not go down with us into the battle, so that he does not become an adversary to us in the battle. By what could this fellow make himself favorable to his lord? Is it not with the heads of these men?

###### v5
_Is_ this not David about whom they sing in the dances, saying,
'Saul has killed his thousands,
but David his ten thousands'?"

###### v6
So Achish called David and said to him, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] certainly you were honest, and _I am pleased to have you marching with me_ ^[Literally "good in my eyes your going out and your coming in with me"] in the campaign. ^[Or "army"] For I have not found any wrong in you from the day you came to me until this day, but in the eyes of the rulers, you _are_ not good.

###### v7
So then, return and go in peace, so that you do not do _something that displeases_ ^[Literally "bad/evil in the eyes of"] the rulers of _the_ Philistines."

###### v8
Then David said to Achish, "But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant from the day that I _entered your service_ ^[Literally "that I was to your face" = "was before you"] until this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?"

###### v9
And Achish answered and said to David, "I know that you _are_ good in my eyes, like an angel of God! However, the commanders of _the_ Philistines have said, 'He must not go up with us into the battle.'

###### v10
So then, rise early in the morning, _you_ and the servants of your lord who came with you. When you rise early in the morning and it is light _enough_ for you, leave.

###### v11
So David set out early, he and his men, to leave in the morning to return to the land of _the_ Philistines, but _the_ Philistines went up _to_ Jezreel.