---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 21
---

[[1 Sam-20|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-22|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest. And Ahimelech came trembling to meet David, and he said to him, "Why are you alone and there are no men with you?"

###### v2
So David said to Ahimelech the priest, "The king charged me _with_ a matter and said to me, 'No one must know anything about this matter _on_ which I am sending you, _with_ which I have charged you and the servants.'" So _I have arranged to meet with my servants at a certain place_. ^[Literally "I have made an appointment with my servants/young men to a place, a certain _one_"]

###### v3
Now then, _what do you have at hand_? ^[Literally "what _is_ there under your hand"] Give me five _loaves_ of bread or _whatever is here_." ^[Literally "that which _is_ found"]

###### v4
The priest answered David and said, "There is no ordinary bread _here at hand_; ^[Literally "under my hand"] there is only holy bread, _but_ only if the young men have kept themselves from women."

###### v5
David answered the priest and said to him, "Indeed, women _were_ held back from us _as it has been when I've gone out before_. ^[Literally "as yesterday three days ago my going out"] And the things ^[Or possibly "equipment" or "weapons"] of the young men are holy when ^[Or "and"] it _is_ an ordinary journey. _How much more_ ^[Literally "And even that"] _today_ ^[Literally "the day"] will the things ^[Or possibly "equipment" or "weapons"] be holy?"

###### v6
So the priest gave him _the_ holy _bread_, for there was no bread there except the bread of the Presence, which was removed from before Yahweh, in order to set hot bread _there_ on the day when it was taken away.

###### v7
Now there was a man from the servants of Saul on that day, detained before Yahweh, whose name _was_ Doeg the Edomite, the chief of Saul's shepherds.

###### v8
David asked Ahimelech, "Is there not _at your disposal_ ^[Literally "under your hand"] a spear or a sword? For I took neither my sword nor my weapons with me because the king's matter was urgent."

###### v9
So the priest said, "The sword of Goliath the Philistine whom you killed in the valley of Elah _is_ here, wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you want to take it for yourself, _then_ take it, for there is no other except it here." And David said, "There is none like it; give it to me."

###### v10
So David got up and fled on that day from the presence of Saul, and he came to Achish the king of Gath.

###### v11
The servants of Achish said to him, "_Is_ not this David the king of the land? _Is_ it not for this _one_ that they sang in the dances, saying, 'Saul killed his thousands, but David his ten thousands?'"

###### v12
_David took these words seriously_ ^[Literally "David put these words in his heart"] and _felt severely threatened by_ ^[Literally "he was very afraid from the face of"] Achish the king of Gath.

###### v13
So he changed his behavior _before them_ ^[Literally "in their eyes"] and pretended to be mad _in their presence_. ^[Literally "in their hands"] He made scratches on the doors of the gate and let his saliva run down into his beard.

###### v14
Then Achish said to his servants, "Look, you see a madman! Why did you bring him to me?

###### v15
Do I lack madmen that you have brought this one to act like a madman before me? Should this one enter my household?"