---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 17
---

[[1 Sam-16|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-18|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_The_ Philistines gathered their camps ^[Or "armies"] for battle and they were gathered _at_ Socoh which _belongs_ to Judah. They camped between Socoh and Azekah in Ephes Dammim.

###### v2
Then Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and encamped in the valley of Elah, and they formed ranks _for the_ battle to meet _the_ Philistines.

###### v3
_The_ Philistines were standing on the hill on one side and _the army of_ Israel was standing on the hill on the other side with the valley between them.

###### v4
Then _a champion_ ^[Literally "a man of the space between"] went out from the camps of _the_ Philistines, whose name was Goliath from Gath. His height was six cubits and a span. ^[A cubit was about eighteen inches and a span about nine inches, so the Masoretic Hebrew text gives the height of nine feet, nine inches. Ancient Greek versions variously give Goliath's height as four, five, or sixteen cubits.]

###### v5
A bronze helmet was on his head, and he was clothed with scale body armor; the weight of the body armor was five thousand bronze shekels.

###### v6
Bronze greaves ^[Or "shin guards"] were on his legs, ^[Hebrew "feet"] and a bronze javelin _was slung_ between his shoulders.

###### v7
The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam and the point of his spear _weighed_ six hundred iron shekels. _His shield bearer_ ^[Literally "The one who carried his shield"] was walking in front of him.

###### v8
He stood and called to the battle lines of Israel and said to them, "Why have you come out to form ranks _for_ battle? _Am_ I not the Philistine, and you the servants of Saul? Commission for yourselves a man and let him come down to me.

###### v9
If he _is_ able to fight with me and he defeats me, then we will be your servants; but if I prevail over him and defeat him, then you will be our servants and you will serve us."

###### v10
Then the Philistine said, "I hereby defy the battle lines of Israel today! Give me a man so that we may fight each other!"

###### v11
When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and very afraid.

###### v12
Now David was the son of an Ephrathite. This _man was_ from Bethlehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse. _He had_ ^[Literally "And for him were"] eight sons; in the days of Saul this man was old, _yet_ he _still_ walked among ^[The LXX reads "he went in years"; that is, he was advanced in years] the men.

###### v13
The three oldest sons of Jesse had gone and _followed_ ^[Literally "went after"] Saul to the battle. The names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, his second _oldest_ was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.

###### v14
Now David was the youngest. The three oldest _followed_ ^[Literally "went after"] Saul,

###### v15
but David went _back and forth_ ^[Literally "_was_ going and _was_ returning"] from Saul to feed the sheep of his father in Bethlehem.

###### v16
Now the Philistine came forward early and late, and he took his stand _for_ forty days.

###### v17
Then Jesse said to his son David, "Please take for your brothers an ephah of this roasted grain and these ten loaves of bread, and bring _them_ quickly to the camp for your brothers.

###### v18
And these ten portions of cheese you will bring to the commander of the thousand; _find out how your brothers are doing_, ^[Literally "make a careful inspection as far as peace _concerning_ your brothers"] and take their pledge." ^[That is, some pledge or token of assurance that they had received the goods]

###### v19
Now Saul and they ^[That is, David's brothers] and all the men of Israel _were_ in the valley of Elah fighting _the_ Philistines.

###### v20
David rose early in the morning and left the sheep with a keeper, and he took _the provisions_ and went as Jesse had commanded him. He came to the encampment while the troops _were_ going to the battle line, and they raised the war cry.

###### v21
Israel and _the_ Philistines drew up _in_ battle lines, _one battle line against the other_. ^[Literally "battle line to oppose battle line"]

###### v22
David left the baggage _he had_ with him in the _care_ ^[Literally "hand"] of the baggage keeper, ran to the battle line, and came and _asked how his brothers were doing_. ^[Literally "asked his brothers as far as peace"]

###### v23
While he _was_ speaking to them, _the champion_, ^[Literally "the man of the space between"] whose name was Goliath the Philistine from Gath, _was_ coming up from the caves ^[So the Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_); the reading tradition (_Qere_) and LXX have "ranks"] of _the_ Philistines. He spoke _just as he had previously_, ^[Literally "according to these words"] and David heard _his words_.

###### v24
When all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from his presence and were very afraid.

###### v25
And the men of Israel said, "Did you see this man who has come up? For he _is_ going up to defy Israel! It will be _that_ the man who defeats him, the king will make him ^[That is, the man who defeats Goliath] very rich with great wealth and will give him his daughter _in marriage_ and will make his father's house free in Israel." ^[That is, free from taxation]

###### v26
Now David had spoken to the men _who were_ standing with him, saying, "What will be done for the man who defeats this Philistine and removes _the_ disgrace from Israel? For who _is_ this uncircumcised Philistine that he defies the battle lines of the living God?"

###### v27
And the troops had spoken to him according to this word, saying, "So it will be done for the man who defeats ^[Or "kills"] him."

###### v28
His oldest brother Eliab heard while he was speaking to the men, _and Eliab became very angry against David_ ^[Literally "and the nose of Eliab became hot concerning David"] and said, "Why have you come down today, and with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumptuousness and the evil of your heart! For you have come down in order to see the battle!"

###### v29
David replied, "What have I done now? _I merely asked a question_! ^[Literally "_Is_ this not a word?"]

###### v30
He turned around from him to another opposite _him_ and _he spoke to him in the same way_, ^[Literally "and he said according to this word"] and the people ^[Or "troops"] _answered him as before_. ^[Literally "returned to him a word as the first word"]

###### v31
Now the words which David had spoken were heard and they reported _them_ _to_ ^[Literally "before the face/in the presence of"] Saul, and he summoned him.

###### v32
David said to Saul, "Do not let anyone's heart fail concerning him! Your servant will go and fight with this Philistine."

###### v33
But Saul said to David, "You will not be able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, because you are _only_ a boy, whereas _he has_ been a man of war since his childhood!"

###### v34
And David said to Saul, "Your servant has been a shepherd of the flock for his father. If the lion or the bear would come and carry off a sheep from the group,

###### v35
I would go out after it and strike it down and rescue _the sheep_ from its mouth. If it rose against me, I would grab _it_ by its beard and strike it down and kill it.

###### v36
Your servant has struck down both the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, because he defied the battle lines of the living God."

###### v37
And David said, "Yahweh, who rescued me from the hand of the lion and from the hand of the bear, will rescue me from the hand of this Philistine!" Then Saul said to David, "Go and may Yahweh be with you!"

###### v38
Then Saul clothed David with his _own_ fighting attire and put a helmet of bronze on his head and clothed him _with_ body armor.

###### v39
Then David strapped on his sword over his fighting attire, but he tried in vain to walk _around_, for he was not trained to use _them_. So David said to Saul, "I am not able to walk with these, because I am not trained to use _them_." So David removed them.

###### v40
Then he took his staff in his hand, picked out for himself five smooth stones from the wadi, ^[A valley that is usually dry but contains a stream during the rainy season] and he put them in his shepherd's bag, in the pouch. And with his sling in his hand, he approached the Philistine.

###### v41
Then the Philistine _came on, getting nearer and nearer_ ^[Literally "went going and near"] to David, with _his shield bearer_ ^[Literally "the man carrying the shield"] in front of him.

###### v42
When the Philistine looked and saw David, he despised him, for he was _only_ a boy and ruddy with a handsome appearance.

###### v43
So the Philistine said to David, "_Am_ I a dog, that you _are_ coming to me with sticks?" Then the Philistine cursed David by his gods.

###### v44
The Philistine said to David, "Come to me so that I can give your flesh to the birds of heaven and to the wild animals of the field!"

###### v45
Then David said to the Philistine, "You _are_ coming to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I am coming to you in the name of Yahweh of hosts, the God of the battle lines of Israel, whom you have defied!

###### v46
This day Yahweh will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down _and cut off your head_! ^[Literally "and I will remove your head from upon you"] Then I will give _the_ corpses of the army of _the_ Philistines this day to the birds of heaven and to the animals of the earth, so that all the earth may know that there is a God _who is_ for Israel.

###### v47
And all of this assembly will know that Yahweh does not rescue with sword or with spear, for the battle _belongs_ to Yahweh, and he will give you into our hands!"

###### v48
_When_ ^[Literally "And it happened that when"] the Philistine got up and came and drew near to meet David, David _ran quickly_ ^[Literally "made quickly and he ran"] to the battle line to meet the Philistine.

###### v49
Then David put his hand into the bag and took a stone from it and slung _it_. He struck the Philistine on his forehead, and the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the ground.

###### v50
So David prevailed over the Philistine with the sling and with the stone, and he struck down the Philistine and killed him, but there was no sword in David's hand.

###### v51
Then David ran and stood over the Philistine and took his sword and drew it from its sheath and killed him and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.

###### v52
The men of Israel and Judah got up, raised the war cry, and pursued _the_ Philistines _as far as_ ^[Literally "up to your coming _to_"] the valley ^[So the Masoretic Hebrew text; LXX reads "Gath"] and up to the gates of Ekron. So the slain of _the_ Philistines fell on the way ^[Or "road"] to Shaaraim up to Gath and as far as Ekron.

###### v53
Then the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] returned from pursuing _the_ Philistines and plundered their camp.

###### v54
And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem and placed his weapons in his tent.

###### v55
Now when Saul saw David going out to meet the Philistine, he said to Abner, the commander of the army, "Whose son _is_ this young man, Abner?" And Abner said, "As your soul lives, O king, I do not know."

###### v56
Then the king said, "You inquire whose son this young man _is_."

###### v57
So when David returned from striking down the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul. The head of the Philistine _was_ in his hand.

###### v58
Then Saul said to him, "Whose son are you, young man?" And David said, "_I am_ the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."