---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 25
---

[[1 Sam-24|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-26|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now Samuel died, and all Israel assembled and mourned for him. They buried him at his house at Ramah. Then David got up and went down to the wilderness of Paran.

###### v2
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business _was_ in Carmel. The man was very rich and _owned_ ^[Literally "_there were_ for him"] three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. _Now_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] the shearing of his sheep _was taking place_ in Carmel.

###### v3
The name of the man _was_ Nabal, ^[The name "Nabal" means "foolish"] and the name of his wife _was_ Abigail. ^[The name "Abigail" means "my father delights"] Now the woman _was_ wise and beautiful, but the man _was_ stubborn and _mean_, ^[Literally "bad of deeds"] and he _was_ as his heart. ^[The Masoretic Hebrew text (_Kethib_) reads "as his heart," whereas the reading tradition (_Qere)_ reads "Calebite"]

###### v4
David heard in the wilderness that Nabal _was_ shearing his sheep.

###### v5
So David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, "Go up to Carmel and go to Nabal; _you will greet him in my name_. ^[Literally "you will ask for him in my name as far as peace"]

###### v6
Then you must say to him, '_Long_ life _to you_, and _may it go well with you, with your house, and with all that is yours_. ^[Literally "you _are_ peace and your house _is_ peace and all that _is_ yours _is_ peace"]

###### v7
Now I have heard that _you have shearers_. ^[Literally "shearing _is_ for you"] Now while your shepherds _were_ with us, we did not mistreat them, and nothing of theirs _was_ missing, all the days they were in Carmel.

###### v8
Ask your servants ^[Or "young men"] and they will tell you! Let the young men ^[Or "the servants"; "young men" is used here to connect with v. 5] find favor in your eyes because we have come on a feast day. Please give _whatever you have on hand_ ^[Literally "what your hand finds"] for your servants and for your son David."

###### v9
So David's young men came and they spoke all these words to Nabal in the name of David. Then they waited.

###### v10
But Nabal answered David's servants and said, "Who _is_ David? And who _is_ the son of Jesse? Today, _there_ are many servants breaking away from the presence of their masters.

###### v11
Should I take my bread and my water and my meat which I have slaughtered for my shearers and give _it_ to men whom I do not know where they _are_ from?

###### v12
So David's young men turned on their way and returned and came and told him according to all these words.

###### v13
Then David said to his men, "Each man strap on his sword!" So each one strapped on his sword, and David also strapped on his sword. About four hundred men went up after David, while two hundred remained with the baggage.

###### v14
But a young man of the servants told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, "Look, David sent messengers from the desert to greet ^[Hebrew "bless"] our master, but he addressed them angrily,

###### v15
even though the men _were_ very good to us; we were not mistreated and did not miss anything all the days we went about with them _while we were_ ^[Literally "at our being"] in the field.

###### v16
They were a wall to us both night and day, all _the days we were_ ^[Literally "the days of our being"] with them keeping the sheep.

###### v17
And so then, know and _consider_ ^[Literally "see"] what you should do, for evil has been decided against our master and against all his household, and he _is such_ _a wicked man_, ^[Literally "a son of uselessness"] _nobody can reason with him_!" ^[Literally "from speaking to him"]

###### v18
Then Abigail _quickly took_ ^[Literally "hastened and took"] two hundred loaves of bread, two skins of wine, five prepared sheep, five seahs of roasted grain, a hundred raisin cakes, and two hundred fig cakes, and she put _them_ on the donkeys.

###### v19
Then she said to her servants, "Go ahead before me; look, I am coming after you," but she did not tell her husband Nabal.

###### v20
_And then_, ^[Literally "And it happened"] _as_ she _was_ riding on the donkey and _was_ going down the ravine of the mountain, David and his men _were_ coming down to meet her, and she met them.

###### v21
Now David had said, "Surely _in vain_ ^[Literally "for the vanity"] I guarded all that this fellow had in the desert. And nothing was missed of all that _was_ his, but he returned evil against me in place of good!

###### v22
_May God severely punish the enemies of David_ ^[Literally "May God do so to the enemies of David"; following the LXX some English versions omit the words "the enemies of"] and again do thus if I leave behind _anything that is his_ ^[Literally "from all that _is_ for him"] until the morning, _not even_ _one male_!" ^[Literally "from one urinating against a wall"]

###### v23
When Abigail saw David, she hurried and got down from the donkey and fell on her face before _David's anger_, ^[Literally "the nostrils of David"] and she bowed down to the ground.

###### v24
She fell at his feet and said, "On me, my lord, _be_ the guilt! Please let your female servant speak _to you personally_! ^[Literally "in your ears"] Hear the words of your female servant!

###### v25
Please do not let my lord set his heart against _this worthless man_, ^[Literally "this man of wickedness"] Nabal; for as his name, so _is_ he. Nabal _is_ his name, and stupidity _is_ with him! But I, your female servant, did not see the young men ^[Or "the servants"] of my lord whom you sent.

###### v26
So then, my lord, _as Yahweh lives and as your soul lives_, ^[Literally "the life of Yahweh and _the_ life of your soul"] since Yahweh restrained you from bloodguilt _by taking matters into your own hand_, ^[Literally "saving your hand for you"] so then, may your enemies be like Nabal, even _those who seek to do my lord harm_. ^[Literally "the seeking to my lord evil"]

###### v27
So then, this gift which your female servant has brought to my lord, may it be given to the young men _who follow my lord_. ^[Literally "the _ones_ going about at the feet of my lord"]

###### v28
Please forgive the transgression of your female servant, because Yahweh will certainly make a lasting house ^[That is, a lasting dynasty] for my lord, because my lord _is_ fighting the battles of Yahweh, and evil will not be found in you _as long as you live_. ^[Literally "from your days"]

###### v29
Should a man arise to pursue you and to seek your life, may the life of my lord be wrapped in the pouch ^[Or "bag"] of the living with Yahweh your God. But as for the life of your enemy, he will sling it from within ^[Hebrew "in the midst of"] the pocket of the sling!

###### v30
_And then_ ^[Literally "And it will happen"] when Yahweh has done for my lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning you, and has appointed you as leader over Israel,

###### v31
then this will not be an obstacle for you or a stumbling block of conscience for my lord _either_ by the shedding of blood without cause or by _my lord taking matters into his own hands_. ^[Literally "_the_ saving of my lord for himself"] And when Yahweh does good to my lord, then remember your female servant."

###### v32
Then David said to Abigail, "Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who has sent you this day to meet me!

###### v33
And blessed be your discretion, and blessed be you who have prevented me this day from bloodguilt and _from_ delivering myself by my own hand.

###### v34
But _as Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "the life of Yahweh"] the God of Israel who has prevented me from harming you, if you had not hurried and come to meet me, surely there would not have been _one male_ ^[Literally "one urinating against a wall"] left alive for Nabal by the light of morning!"

###### v35
Then David took from her hand what she had brought for him, and he said to her, "Go up to your house in peace. See, I have listened to your voice, and I have _granted your request_." ^[Literally "lifted up your face"]

###### v36
Then Abigail went to Nabal, and look, _he was holding a feast_ ^[Literally "a feast _was_ for him"] in his house like the feast of the king. _Nabal was enjoying himself_, ^[Literally "the heart of Nabal _was_ good on him"] and he _was_ very drunk, so she did not tell him a thing, _nothing at all_, ^[Literally "small or large"] until the light of morning.

###### v37
_And then_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] in the morning when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these words. Then his heart died _within him_, ^[Literally "in his midst"] and he became like a stone.

###### v38
_And then_, ^[Literally "And it happened"] about ten days later, Yahweh struck Nabal and he died.

###### v39
When David heard that Nabal had died, he said, "Blessed be Yahweh who has vindicated the case of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and he has kept back his servant from evil; but Yahweh has returned the evil of Nabal on his _own_ head." Then David sent and spoke with Abigail to take her for his wife.

###### v40
So the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, and they spoke to her, saying, "David has sent us to you to take you for his wife."

###### v41
She got up and bowed down _with_ her face to the ground and said, "Here is your female servant, as a slave to wash the feet of my lord's servants."

###### v42
Then Abigail _quickly got up_ ^[Literally "hastened and got up"] and rode on the donkey, _along with_ five of her maidservants who _attended her_, ^[Literally "the _ones_ going about at her feet"] and she went after the messengers of David and became his wife.

###### v43
David had also taken Ahinoam from Jezreel, and both of them became his wives.

###### v44
(Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who _was_ from Gallim.)