---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 31
---

[[1 Sam-30|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
Now _the_ Philistines _were_ fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before _the_ Philistines, and they fell slain on Mount Gilboa.

###### v2
And _the_ Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and _the_ Philistines killed Jonathan and Abinadab and Malki-Shua, the sons of Saul.

###### v3
_Saul was in the thick of the battle_, ^[Literally "The battle weighed heavily on Saul"] and _the archers_ ^[Literally "the shooters, the men with the bow"] spotted ^[Hebrew "found"] him, and he _was_ badly wounded by the archers.

###### v4
Then Saul said to _his armor bearer_, ^[Literally "the carrier of his weapons"] "Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, so that these uncircumcised do not come and thrust me through and make a fool of me!" But _his armor bearer_ ^[Literally "the carrier of his weapons"] _was_ not willing _to do so_ because he _was_ very afraid. So Saul took the sword and fell on it.

###### v5
And when _his armor bearer_ ^[Literally "the carrier of his weapons"] saw that Saul _was_ dead, he also fell on his sword and died with him.

###### v6
So Saul died, and his three sons, _his armor bearer_, ^[Literally "the carrier of his weapons"] _and_ all his men together that _same_ day.

###### v7
And when the men of Israel who _were_ on the other side of the valley and _those_ who were beyond the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the towns and fled. Thus _the_ Philistines came and lived in them.

###### v8
_And then_ ^[Literally, "And it happened"] the next day, _the_ Philistines came to strip the dead and they found Saul and his three sons lying _dead_ on Mount Gilboa.

###### v9
So they cut off his head and stripped off his armor. Then they sent _messengers_ around in the land of _the_ Philistines to proclaim _victory in_ the temples ^[Or "houses"] of their idols and _to_ the people.

###### v10
And they put his armor _in_ the temple ^[Or "house"] of the Ashtoreth, ^[Hebrew plural "Ashtaroth" (Ashtoreth was the female consort of Ba'al)] and they fastened his corpse to the wall of Beth Shan.

###### v11
When the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard about it, what _the_ Philistines had done to Saul,

###### v12
all of _the valiant men_ ^[Literally "the men of ability"] set out and went all night and took the corpse of Saul and the corpses of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.

###### v13
Then they took their bones and buried _them_ under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and they fasted _for_ seven days.