---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 16
---

[[1 Sam-15|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-17|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Yahweh said to Samuel, "_How long_ ^[Literally "Until when"] will you mourn about Saul? I have rejected him from being king over Israel! Fill up your horn _with_ oil and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have chosen a king for myself among his sons."

###### v2
But Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul hears, he will kill me." Yahweh said, "You must take a heifer from the herd _with you_, ^[Literally "in/with your hand"] and you must say, 'I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh.'

###### v3
You will invite Jesse to the sacrifice and I will make known to you what you must do. You will anoint for me _the one_ whom I tell you."

###### v4
So Samuel did what Yahweh said. He came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city came trembling to meet him. They said, "_Have you come in peace_?" ^[Literally "_Is_ your coming peace?"]

###### v5
He said, "_I come in_ peace. I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice." So he sanctified Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.

###### v6
_When they came_, ^[Literally "And it happened at their coming"] he ^[That is, Samuel] saw Eliab and said, "Surely his anointed one _is_ before Yahweh!"

###### v7
But Yahweh said to Samuel, "Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For _God does_ not _see_ what man sees, for a man _looks on the outward appearance_, ^[Literally "sees as far as the eyes"] but Yahweh _looks on the heart_." ^[Literally "sees as far as the heart"]

###### v8
Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, "This one also Yahweh has not chosen."

###### v9
So Jesse made Shammah pass _before Samuel_, but he said, "Yahweh also has not chosen this one."

###### v10
And Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said to Jesse, "Yahweh has not chosen any of these."

###### v11
Then Samuel said to Jesse, "_Are all the young men here_?" ^[Literally "Are the boys finished?"] And he said, "The youngest still remains, but look, he _is_ shepherding the flock." And Samuel said to Jesse, "Send and bring him, for we cannot _sit down_ ^[Literally "turn"; for "sit down" see HALOT 739 s.v. 2.c] until he comes here."

###### v12
So he sent and brought him. Now he _was_ ruddy with beautiful eyes and of _handsome_ ^[Literally "good"] appearance. And Yahweh said, "Arise, anoint him, for this _is_ he."

###### v13
So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. Then the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon David from that day _on_. ^[Literally "and forward"] Then Samuel got up and went to Ramah.

###### v14
Now the Spirit of Yahweh departed from Saul and an evil spirit from Yahweh tormented him.

###### v15
So the servants of Saul said to him, "Look please, an evil spirit from God _is_ tormenting you.

###### v16
Please, let our lord command your servants _who are_ before you! Let them seek a man skilled in playing on the lyre. _When_ ^[Literally "And it will happen _that_"] the evil spirit from God _is_ upon you, he can play _on it_ ^[Literally "with his hand"] and _you will feel better_." ^[Literally "and _it will be_ good for you"]

###### v17
So Saul said to his servants, "Please select a man _who plays a stringed instrument well_ ^[Literally "doing well to play a stringed instrument"] and bring _him_ to me."

###### v18
One of the servants answered and said, "Look, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite _who is_ skillful in playing a stringed instrument, a _brave man, a warrior, prudent in speech, and handsome_. ^[Literally "a hero of ability, a man of war, discerning of word, and a man of appearance"] And Yahweh _is_ with him."

###### v19
So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me David your son who _is_ with the sheep."

###### v20
And Jesse took a donkey _loaded with_ bread and a skin of wine and one _young goat_ ^[Literally "kid of a goat"] and sent _them_ to Saul by the hand of David his son.

###### v21
So David came to Saul and _entered his service_. ^[Literally "stood before him"] He ^[That is, Saul] loved him greatly and _he became Saul's armor bearer_. ^[Literally "he became for him a carrier of weapons"]

###### v22
Then Saul sent _word_ to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me, because he has found favor _in my sight_." ^[Literally "in my eyes"]

###### v23
So whenever the _evil_ spirit from God came to Saul, David would take the stringed instrument and play it with his hand. Then _it would bring relief_ ^[Literally "it would be relieved"] for Saul; _he would feel better_ ^[Literally "it would be good for him"] and the evil spirit would depart from him.