---
aliases:
  - 1 Samuel 26
---

[[1 Sam-25|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Sam-27|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "_Is_ not David hiding on the hill of Hakilah opposite Jeshimon?"

###### v2
Then Saul got up and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.

###### v3
Now Saul was on the hill of Hakilah, which _is_ opposite Jeshimon by the road, but David was staying in the wilderness. When he realized that Saul had come to the wilderness after him,

###### v4
David sent spies, and he learned that Saul had come _for certain_. ^[Literally "to be established"]

###### v5
Then David got up and came to the place where Saul had encamped, and David saw the place where Saul _was_ lying down, _as well as_ ^[Literally "and"] Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his army. (Now Saul _was_ lying in the encampment, and the army _was_ encamping around him.)

###### v6
David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah the brother of Joab, saying, "Who will go down with me to Saul, in the camp?" And Abishai said, "I will go down with you."

###### v7
So David and Abishai came to the army _by_ night, and _there was_ ^[Literally "look" or "behold"] Saul lying asleep in the encampment with ^[Hebrew "and"] his spear thrust into the ground near his head, and Abner and the army _were_ lying all around him.

###### v8
Then Abishai said to David, "God has handed over your enemy into your hand today! So then, _please let me pin him to the ground with the spear_ ^[Literally "let me strike him please with the spear and in the ground"] _one time_, ^[Literally "one occurrence"] and _I will not strike him twice_." ^[Literally "I will not repeat for him"]

###### v9
But David said to Abishai, "Do not destroy ^[Or "kill"] him! For who has stretched out his hand against Yahweh's anointed one and remained blameless?"

###### v10
And David said, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] _certainly_ ^[Literally "if surely"] Yahweh will strike him, or his day will come and he will die, or he will go down in the battle and _perish_. ^[Literally "will be carried away"]

###### v11
_Yahweh forbid me_ ^[Literally "Far be it from me from Yahweh"] from stretching out my hand against Yahweh's anointed one! So then, please take the spear that _is_ near his head and the jar of water, and let us go."

###### v12
So David took the spear and the jar of water from _near_ Saul's head, and they went _away_. _No one saw, no one knew, and no one awakened_, ^[Literally "there was not _anyone_ seeing and there was not _anyone_ knowing and there was not _anyone_ awakening"] for all of them _were_ sleeping because a deep sleep of Yahweh had fallen upon them.

###### v13
Then David went to the other side and stood on the top of the hill at a distance; the distance _was_ great between them.

###### v14
David called out to the army and to Abner the son of Ner, "Will you not answer, Abner?" And Abner answered and said, "Who _are_ you _that_ you call to the king?"

###### v15
So David said to Abner, "_Are_ you not a man? And who _is_ like you in Israel? Why did you not keep watch over your lord the king? For one of the people came to destroy ^[Or "to kill"] your lord the king.

###### v16
This thing that you have done _is_ not good. _As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "the life of Yahweh"] _surely you people deserve to die_ ^[Literally "you are sons of death"] since you have not kept watch over your lord, over Yahweh's anointed one! So then, see where the king's spear _is_ and the jar of water that _was_ near his head!"

###### v17
Then Saul recognized David's voice and said, "_Is_ this your voice, my son David?" And David said, "_It is_ my voice, my lord the king."

###### v18
Then he said, "Why _is_ my lord pursuing after his servant? For what have I done? And what evil _is_ in my hand?

###### v19
And so then, please let my lord the king listen to the words of his servant: If Yahweh has incited you against me, may he delight in an offering; but if _it is mortals_, ^[Literally "_it is_ the sons of humankind"] _may_ they be accursed _before_ ^[Literally "to the face of"] Yahweh, for they have driven me away today from sharing in the inheritance of Yahweh, saying, 'Go, serve other gods!'

###### v20
And so then, do not let my blood fall to the ground _away from_ ^[Literally "from before"] the presence of Yahweh, for the king of Israel has gone out to seek a single flea, as one hunts a partridge in the mountains."

###### v21
Then Saul said, "I have sinned! Come back, David my son, for I will not harm you again, because my life _was_ precious in your eyes this day. Look, I have acted like a fool and _have made a terrible mistake_." ^[Literally "have gone greatly astray"]

###### v22
David answered and said, "Here is the king's spear; let one of the young men ^[Or "servants"] come over and take it.

###### v23
Yahweh repays to each _one_ his righteousness and his faithfulness, for Yahweh gave you into my hand today, but I was not willing to stretch out my hand against Yahweh's anointed.

###### v24
Look, as your life was precious in my eyes this day, may my life be great in the eyes of Yahweh, and may he rescue me from all trouble."

###### v25
Then Saul said to David, "Blessed are you, my son David; _you will not only do many things, but also will always succeed_!" ^[Literally "you will do many things and also always you will prevail"] Then David went on his way and Saul returned to his place.