---
aliases:
  - Psalms 9
---

[[Ps-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I will thank Yahweh with all my heart.
I will tell of all your wonderful deeds.

###### v2
I will be glad and rejoice in you.
I will sing _the praise of_ your name, O Most High.

###### v3
When my enemies turn back,
they will stumble and perish because of your presence.

###### v4
For you have maintained my just cause;
you have sat on _the_ throne judging correctly.

###### v5
You have rebuked _the_ nations;
you have destroyed _the_ wicked.
Their name you have blotted out
forever and ever.

###### v6
The enemies are destroyed _in_ ruins forever,
and you have uprooted _their_ cities;
their very memory has perished.

###### v7
But Yahweh sits _enthroned_ forever.
He has established his throne for judgment.

###### v8
And he will judge _the_ world with righteousness.
He will judge _the_ peoples with equity.

###### v9
And Yahweh will be a stronghold for the oppressed,
a stronghold in times of distress.

###### v10
And those who know your name will trust in you,
for you do not forsake those _who_ seek you, O Yahweh.

###### v11
Sing _praises_ to Yahweh _who_ sits _enthroned_ ^[Or "who dwells"] in Zion.
Tell his deeds among the peoples,

###### v12
for he _who_ _avenges bloodshed_ ^[Literally "seeks bloods"] remembers them.
He does not forget the distressed cry of _the_ afflicted.

###### v13
Be gracious to me, O Yahweh.
See my suffering from _those who_ hate me,
_you who_ lift me up from the gates of death,

###### v14
so that I may tell of all your praises.
In the gates of the daughter of Zion
let me rejoice in your salvation.

###### v15
_The_ nations have fallen in _the_ pit _that_ they made;
their foot is caught in _the_ net that they hid.

###### v16
Yahweh has made himself known;
he has executed judgment.
The wicked is snared by the work of his hands. _Higgaion_ ^[Hebrew musical term] _Selah_

###### v17
_The_ wicked shall turn back to Sheol,
all _the_ nations forgetting God,

###### v18
for _the_ needy shall not always be forgotten;
the hope of the poor shall never perish.

###### v19
Rise up, O Yahweh, let not humans ^[Hebrew "human"] prevail;
let _the_ nations be judged before you.

###### v20
O Yahweh, put them in fear.
Let _the_ nations know they _are merely_ human. _Selah_