---
aliases:
  - Psalms 7
---

[[Ps-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, my God, in you I have taken refuge.
Save me from all _who_ pursue me, and deliver me.

###### v2
Or else he will tear me apart like a lion,
ripping to pieces, with none _to_ deliver.

###### v3
O Yahweh, my God, if I have done this,
if there is wrong in my hands,

###### v4
if I have repaid _my ally_ ^[Literally "_one_ being at peace with me"] _with_ harm,
or _if_ I have plundered my enemy without cause,

###### v5
let the enemy of my soul pursue,
and overtake and trample my life into the ground,
and lay my honor in the dust. _Selah_

###### v6
Rise up, O Yahweh, in your anger,
and lift yourself up against the wrath ^[Or "outbursts"] of my oppressors,
and awake for me,
since you have commanded judgment.

###### v7
And let _the_ assembly of peoples surround you,
and over it return on high.

###### v8
Yahweh judges the nations.
O Yahweh, vindicate me
according to my innocence ^[Or "righteousness"] and according to my integrity within me.

###### v9
Let the evil of the wicked come to an end,
but establish _the_ righteous,
and test the hearts and innermost being, O righteous God.

###### v10
My shield _is_ with God
who saves the upright of heart.

###### v11
God _is_ a righteous judge,
and a God who has indignation every day.

###### v12
If he ^[That is, a person] does not repent, he ^[That is, God] will sharpen his sword.
He has bent his bow and he has _strung_ ^[Literally "prepared"] it.

###### v13
And he has prepared for him weapons of death.
He has made his arrows fiery shafts.

###### v14
See, he ^[That is, the wicked] travails with ^[Or "conceives"] evil.
He is pregnant with trouble,
and he gives birth to deception.

###### v15
He makes a pit and digs it out,
then falls in _the_ trap he has made.

###### v16
His trouble comes back on his head,
and his violence comes down on his skull.

###### v17
I will thank Yahweh according to his righteousness,
and I will sing praise to the name of Yahweh, _the_ Most High.