---
aliases:
  - Psalms 5
---

[[Ps-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Hear my words, O Yahweh.
Give heed to my sighing. ^[Or "murmuring"]

###### v2
Listen to the sound of my pleading, ^[Or "cry for help"] my king and my God,
for to you I pray.

###### v3
O Yahweh, in _the_ morning you will hear my voice.
In _the_ morning I will set forth ^[Or "present"] _my case_ to you and I will watch. ^[Or "look expectantly"]

###### v4
For you _are_ not a God _who_ desires ^[Or "takes delight in"] wickedness.
Evil cannot dwell with you.

###### v5
The boastful do not stand before ^[Or "in front of"] your eyes.
You hate all evildoers.

###### v6
You destroy speakers of lies. ^[Hebrew "lie"]
_A man of bloodshed_ ^[Literally "a man of bloods"] and deceit Yahweh abhors.

###### v7
_But as for me_, ^[Literally "And I"] through the abundance of your steadfast love ^[Or "covenant love"]
I will enter your house. ^[Or "temple"]
I will bow down ^[Or "I will worship"] toward _your holy temple_ ^[Literally "the temple of your holiness"] in awe _of_ you.

###### v8
O Yahweh, lead me in your righteousness because of my enemies;
make straight before me your way.

###### v9
For there is not _anything_ reliable in his mouth;
their inner part _is_ destruction. ^[Hebrew "destructions"]
Their throat is an open grave;
_with_ their tongue they speak deceit. ^[Or "flattery; smooth words"]

###### v10
Treat them as guilty, O God;
let them fall because of their plans.
Because of the abundance of their transgressions cast them out,
for they have rebelled against you.

###### v11
But let all who take shelter in you rejoice.
Let them ever ^[Or "perpetually"] sing for joy,
_because_ ^[Literally "and"] you spread protection over them;
And let those ^[Or "So that those"] _who_ love your name exult in you.

###### v12
For you bless _the_ righteous.
O Yahweh, like a ^[Hebrew "the"] shield you surround him _with_ good favor.