---
aliases:
  - Psalms 119
---

[[Ps-118|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-120|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Blessed _are those whose_ way is blameless,
who walk in the law of Yahweh.

###### v2
Blessed _are_ those who keep his testimonies;
they seek him with a whole heart.

###### v3
They also do no wrong;
they walk in his ways.

###### v4
You have commanded ^[Perhaps emphatic; Hebrew "you, you have commanded"] your precepts,
that _we_ should keep _them_ diligently.

###### v5
Oh that my ways were steadfast,
to keep your statutes!

###### v6
Then I would not be ashamed
when I look to all your commands.

###### v7
I will give you thanks with an upright heart,
when I learn your righteous laws.

###### v8
I will heed your statutes;
do not utterly forsake me.

###### v9
How can a young man keep his way pure?
By taking heed according to your word.

###### v10
With my whole heart I have sought you;
do not let me stray from your commands.

###### v11
In my heart I have hidden your word, ^[Or "promise"]
so that I may not sin against you.

###### v12
Blessed _are_ you, O Yahweh.
Teach me your statutes.

###### v13
With my lips I have told _of_
all the ordinances of your mouth.

###### v14
In the way of your testimonies I have rejoiced
as _I would_ over all riches.

###### v15
I will meditate on your precepts
and look at ^[That is, "examine"] your ways.

###### v16
I will take delight in your statutes;
I will not forget your word.

###### v17
Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live
and heed your word.

###### v18
Uncover my eyes, that I may look at ^[That is, "examine"]
wonderful things from your law.

###### v19
I _am_ a sojourner on the earth; ^[That is, "here for a short time"]
do not hide your commands from me.

###### v20
My soul is crushed with longing
for your ordinances at all times.

###### v21
You rebuke _the_ arrogant, _the_ accursed,
who stray from your commands.

###### v22
_Remove from_ ^[Literally "Roll off of"] me scorn and contempt,
for I have kept your testimonies.

###### v23
Even _though_ princes sit _and_ speak against me,
your servant meditates on your statutes.

###### v24
Your testimonies _are_ my delight,
_my counselors_. ^[Literally "the men of my counsel"]

###### v25
My soul clings to the dust;
revive me according to your word.

###### v26
I told of my ways, and you answered me;
teach me your statutes.

###### v27
Make me understand the way of your precepts,
that I may meditate on your wonderful things.

###### v28
My soul weeps ^[Or "is sleepless"] because of grief;
strengthen me according to your word.

###### v29
Remove from me _the_ deceptive way,
and graciously give me your law.

###### v30
I have chosen _the_ faithful way;
I have set your ordinances _before me_.

###### v31
I cling to your testimonies;
O Yahweh, do not let me be put to shame.

###### v32
I will run the way of your commands,
for you will enlarge my heart. ^[That is, "give greater understanding"]

###### v33
Teach me, O Yahweh, the way of your statutes,
and I will keep it to the end.

###### v34
Give me understanding, that I may keep your law
and heed it with _my_ whole heart.

###### v35
Cause me to walk in the path of your commands,
for I delight in it.

###### v36
Incline my heart to your testimonies,
and not to _dishonest_ gain.

###### v37
Turn away my eyes from looking at _what is_ worthless;
revive me in your ways.

###### v38
Fulfill your word ^[Or "your promise"] to your servant,
which _is_ to _bring about_ a reverence for you.

###### v39
Turn away my disgrace that I dread,
for your ordinances _are_ good.

###### v40
Look, I have longed for your precepts;
revive me in your righteousness.

###### v41
Let your acts of loyal love also come to me, O Yahweh,
your salvation according to your word. ^[Or "your promise"]

###### v42
Then I will have an answer _for the_ one who taunts me,
for I trust your word.

###### v43
And do not snatch _the_ word of truth utterly from my mouth,
for I hope in your ordinances.

###### v44
So I will heed your law continually,
forever and ever.

###### v45
And I will go about _freely_, ^[Literally "in the wide place"]
for I have sought your precepts.

###### v46
And I will speak of your testimonies before kings,
and will not be ashamed.

###### v47
And I will take delight in your commands,
which I love.

###### v48
And I will lift up my hands ^[Hebrew "palms"] to your commands, which I love,
and I will meditate on your statutes.

###### v49
Remember _your_ word to your servant,
upon which you have caused me to hope.

###### v50
This _is_ my comfort in my misery:
that your word ^[Or "your promise"] preserves my life.

###### v51
_The_ arrogant utterly deride me;
I have not turned aside from your law.

###### v52
I remember your ordinances of old, O Yahweh,
and I take comfort.

###### v53
Rage seizes me because of _the_ wicked,
those who forsake your law.

###### v54
Your statutes have been my songs
in the house of my sojourning.

###### v55
I remember your name in the night, O Yahweh,
and I heed your law.

###### v56
This has been mine,
that I have kept your precepts.

###### v57
Yahweh _is_ my portion;
I intend to heed your words.

###### v58
I _seek your favor_ ^[Literally "entreat your face"] with my whole heart;
be gracious _to_ me according to your word. ^[Or "your promise"]

###### v59
I think about my ways,
and turn my feet to your testimonies.

###### v60
I hurry and do not delay
to heed your commands.

###### v61
_The_ cords of _the_ wicked surround me,
_but_ I do not forget your law.

###### v62
_In the_ middle of _the_ night I rise to give you thanks,
because of your righteous ordinances.

###### v63
I _am_ a companion of all _who_ fear you
and heed your precepts.

###### v64
The earth, O Yahweh, is full of your loyal love.
Teach me your statutes.

###### v65
You have dealt well with your servant,
O Yahweh, according to your word.

###### v66
Teach me good discernment and knowledge,
for I believe your commands.

###### v67
Before I was afflicted, I was going astray,
but now I heed your word.

###### v68
You _are_ good and do good;
teach me your statutes.

###### v69
_The_ arrogant smear me with lies; ^[Hebrew "lie"]
I keep your precepts with _my_ whole heart.

###### v70
Their heart _is_ insensitive like fat; ^[See [[Isa-06#v10|Isa 6:10]] for a similar idea, but a different word for "fat"]
As for me, I take delight in your law.

###### v71
_It is_ good for me that I was afflicted,
so that I might learn your statutes.

###### v72
The law of your mouth _is_ better to me
than thousands of gold and silver _coins_.

###### v73
Your hands have made me and established me;
give me understanding that I may learn your commands.

###### v74
Those who fear you will see me and be glad,
because I hope in your word.

###### v75
I know, O Yahweh, that your judgments _are_ right,
and _that_ in faithfulness you afflicted me.

###### v76
Please let your loyal love comfort me,
according to your word ^[Or "your promise"] to your servant.

###### v77
Let your mercies come _to_ me, that I may live,
for your law _is_ my delight.

###### v78
Let the arrogant be put to shame,
because they have wronged me _with_ lies. ^[Hebrew "lie"]
As for me, I will meditate on your precepts.

###### v79
Let those who fear you turn to me,
even those who know ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] your testimonies.

###### v80
May my heart be blameless in your statutes,
so that I may not be ashamed.

###### v81
My soul languishes for your salvation;
I hope in your word.

###### v82
My eyes long for ^[Or "long _to see_"] your word, ^[Or "your promise"]
saying, "When will you comfort me?"

###### v83
For I have become like a wineskin in _the_ smoke,
_yet_ I have not forgotten your statutes.

###### v84
How many _are_ the days of your servant?
When will you execute justice against those who persecute me?

###### v85
_The_ arrogant have dug pits ^[That is, traps] for me,
which _is_ not according to ^[Or "who _are_ not in accord with"] your law.

###### v86
All your commands _are_ faithful.
They persecute me deceitfully; help me!

###### v87
They have almost destroyed me on the earth,
but I have not forsaken your precepts.

###### v88
According to your loyal love preserve me alive,
so that I may heed the testimony from your mouth.

###### v89
Forever, O Yahweh,
your word _is settled_ ^[Literally "stands firm"] in heaven.

###### v90
Your faithfulness _endures_ _throughout all generations_. ^[Literally "for a generation and a generation"]
You have established _the_ earth and it stands.

###### v91
By your ordinances they stand today,
for all _are_ your servants.

###### v92
Unless your law _had been_ my delight,
then I would have perished in my misery.

###### v93
I will not ever forget your precepts,
for by them you revive me. ^[Or "give me life"]

###### v94
I _am_ yours. Save me,
for I have sought your precepts.

###### v95
For me _the_ wicked _lie in_ wait to destroy me.
I give attention to your testimonies.

###### v96
I have seen a limit to every perfection; ^[The meaning of this line is uncertain.]
your command _is_ very broad.

###### v97
How I love your law!
The whole day it _is_ my meditation.

###### v98
Your commands make me wiser than my enemies,
because they ^[Hebrew "it _is_"] _are_ ever with me.

###### v99
I have more insight than all my teachers,
for your testimonies _are_ my meditation.

###### v100
I understand more than _the_ elders,
for I keep your precepts.

###### v101
I have restrained my feet from every evil way,
so that I may heed your word.

###### v102
I have not turned aside from your ordinances,
for you have taught me.

###### v103
How smooth ^[Or "sweet"] _are_ your words ^[Hebrew "word"] to my palate,
more than honey in my mouth.

###### v104
From your precepts I get understanding,
therefore I hate every false way.

###### v105
Your word _is_ a lamp to my feet
and a light to my path.

###### v106
I have sworn _an oath_ and confirmed _it_,
to heed _your righteous ordinances_. ^[Literally "the ordinances of your righteousness"]

###### v107
I am very much afflicted;
O Yahweh, revive me according to your word.

###### v108
Please accept the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Yahweh,
and teach me your ordinances.

###### v109
My life _is_ _in danger_ ^[Literally "in my hand"] continually,
yet I do not forget your law.

###### v110
_The_ wicked have laid a snare for me,
yet I do not wander from your precepts.

###### v111
I have taken as my own your testimonies forever,
for they _are_ the joy of my heart.

###### v112
I have inclined my heart to do your statutes
forever, to the end.

###### v113
I hate _the double-minded_, ^[Literally "_the_ divided"]
but I love your law.

###### v114
You _are_ my hiding place and my shield;
I hope in your word.

###### v115
Turn aside from me, _you_ evildoers,
for I will keep the commands of my God.

###### v116
Sustain me according to your word, ^[Or "promise"] that I may live,
and do not let me be ashamed of my hope.

###### v117
Uphold me, that I may be delivered,
and have regard for your statutes continually.

###### v118
You reject all _who_ stray from your statutes,
for their deceit _is_ a breach of faith.

###### v119
You remove all the wicked of _the_ earth _like_ dross,
therefore I love your testimonies.

###### v120
My flesh trembles for fear of you,
and I am afraid of your judgments.

###### v121
I have done justice and righteousness; ^[Or "done _what is_ proper and right"]
do not leave me to my oppressors.

###### v122
Pledge good for your servant;
do not let _the_ arrogant oppress me.

###### v123
My eyes long for ^[Or "long _to see_"] your salvation,
and your righteous word. ^[Or "promise"]

###### v124
Deal with your servant according to your loyal love,
and teach me your statutes.

###### v125
I _am_ your servant; give me understanding,
that I may know your statutes.

###### v126
_It is_ time for Yahweh to act, ^[Or "time to act, O Yahweh"]
_for_ they have broken your law.

###### v127
Therefore I love your commands
more than gold, even fine gold.

###### v128
Therefore all _your_ precepts of everything I regard as right;
I hate every false way.

###### v129
Your testimonies _are_ miracles,
therefore my soul keeps them.

###### v130
The unfolding of your words gives light,
giving understanding to _the_ simple.

###### v131
I open my mouth and pant,
because I long for your commands.

###### v132
Turn to me and be gracious to me,
as _is_ proper for those who love your name.

###### v133
Direct my steps in your word, ^[Or "through your promise"]
and do not let any iniquity gain power over me.

###### v134
Redeem me from _the_ oppression of humankind,
that I may heed your precepts.

###### v135
Shine your face on your servant,
and teach me your statutes.

###### v136
Streams of water flow down _from_ my eyes,
because _people_ do not heed your law.

###### v137
You _are_ righteous, O Yahweh,
and your ordinances _are_ upright.

###### v138
You have ordained your testimonies _in_ righteousness,
and _in_ exceeding faithfulness.

###### v139
My zeal consumes me,
because my enemies have forgotten your words.

###### v140
Your word _is_ very pure,
and your servant loves it.

###### v141
I _am_ small and despised,
_yet_ I do not forget your precepts.

###### v142
Your righteousness _is_ an everlasting righteousness,
and your law _is_ truth.

###### v143
Trouble and anguish have found me;
your commands delight me.

###### v144
The righteousness of your testimonies _is_ forever;
give me understanding that I may live.

###### v145
I call with _my_ whole heart; answer me, O Yahweh.
I will keep your statutes.

###### v146
I call to you. Save me,
and I will heed your testimonies.

###### v147
I rise early in the dawn and cry for help;
I hope in your word. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)]

###### v148
My eyes anticipate _the_ night watches,
that _I may_ meditate on your word.

###### v149
Hear my voice according to your loyal love;
O Yahweh, preserve my life according to your justice.

###### v150
_Those who_ pursue a _wicked_ purpose draw near;
they are far from your law.

###### v151
You _are_ near, O Yahweh,
and all your commands _are_ truth.

###### v152
Concerning your testimonies, I knew long ago
that you have established them forever.

###### v153
See my misery and rescue me,
for I do not forget your law.

###### v154
Plead my cause and redeem me;
preserve my life according to your word. ^[Or "promise"]

###### v155
Salvation _is_ far from _the_ wicked,
for they do not seek your statutes.

###### v156
Your mercies _are_ great, O Yahweh;
preserve my life according to your ordinances.

###### v157
My persecutors and enemies _are_ many,
_yet_ I do not turn aside from your testimonies.

###### v158
I see _the_ treacherous and I feel disgust,
because they do not heed your word.

###### v159
Consider ^[Hebrew "See"] that I love your precepts;
O Yahweh, according to your loyal love preserve my life.

###### v160
The _whole_ ^[Literally "head"] of your word _is_ truth,
and your every righteous judgment _endures_ forever.

###### v161
Princes persecute me without cause,
but my heart trembles because of your word. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)]

###### v162
I _am_ rejoicing over your word,
like one who finds great spoil.

###### v163
I hate and abhor falsehood;
I love your law.

###### v164
I praise you seven _times_ in the day
for your righteous ordinances.

###### v165
Great peace _is_ for those who love your law,
and they do not have a cause for stumbling.

###### v166
I hope for your salvation, O Yahweh,
and do your commands.

###### v167
My soul heeds your testimonies,
and I love them exceedingly.

###### v168
I heed your precepts and testimonies,
because all my ways _are_ before you.

###### v169
Let my cry come before you, O Yahweh;
give me understanding according to your word.

###### v170
Let my plea come before you;
Deliver me according to your word. ^[Or "promise"]

###### v171
Let my lips pour out praise,
because you teach me your statutes.

###### v172
Let my tongue sing _of_ your word, ^[Or "promise"]
because all your commands _are_ right.

###### v173
Let your hand be my help, ^[Hebrew "to help me"]
because I have chosen your precepts.

###### v174
I long for your salvation, O Yahweh,
and your law _is_ my delight.

###### v175
Let my soul ^[Or "my life"] live that it may praise you,
and let your ordinances help me.

###### v176
I have wandered like a lost sheep; seek your servant,
because I do not forget your commands.