---
aliases:
  - Psalms 115
---

[[Ps-114|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-116|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Not to us, O Yahweh, not to us,
but to your name give glory,
because of your loyal love,
because of your faithfulness.

###### v2
Why should the nations say,
"Where, _pray tell_, ^[Literally "please"] _is_ their God?"

###### v3
But our God _is_ in the heavens;
all that he desires, he does.

###### v4
Their idols _are_ silver and gold,
_the_ work of human hands.

###### v5
They have mouths, but cannot speak;
they have eyes, but cannot see;

###### v6
they have ears, but cannot hear;
they have noses, but cannot smell;

###### v7
_they have_ their hands, but they cannot feel,
their feet, but they cannot walk;
they cannot utter a sound in their throats.

###### v8
_Those who_ make them become like them,
_as does_ everyone who trusts in them.

###### v9
O Israel, trust Yahweh;
he _is_ their help and their shield.

###### v10
O house of Aaron, trust in Yahweh;
he _is_ their help and their shield.

###### v11
_You who_ fear Yahweh, trust in Yahweh;
he _is_ their help and their shield.

###### v12
Yahweh remembers us; he will bless _us_.
He will bless the house of Israel;
he will bless the house of Aaron.

###### v13
He will bless _those who_ fear Yahweh,
the small with the great.

###### v14
May Yahweh give you increase,
you and your children.

###### v15
May you be blessed by Yahweh,
who made heaven and earth.

###### v16
The heavens _are_ Yahweh's heavens,
but the earth he has given to _the_ children of humankind.

###### v17
The dead do not praise Yah, ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]
nor any descending into silence.

###### v18
_It is_ we, we will bless Yah ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]
from now until forever.
Praise Yah! ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]