---
aliases:
  - Psalms 143
---

[[Ps-142|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-144|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, hear my prayer;
listen to my supplications.
In your faithfulness answer me,
_and_ in your righteousness.

###### v2
And do not enter into judgment with your servant,
because no one alive _is_ righteous before you.

###### v3
For _the_ enemy has pursued my soul;
he has crushed my life to the ground.
He has made me dwell in dark places
like _those_ long dead.

###### v4
And _so_ my spirit grows faint within me;
my heart _within_ ^[Literally "in the midst of"] me is desolate.

###### v5
I remember _the_ days of long ago;
I meditate on all your doings. ^[Hebrew "doing"]
I muse on the labor of your hands.

###### v6
I stretch out my hands to you;
my soul _longs_ for you like a dry land. _Selah_

###### v7
Quickly answer me, O Yahweh;
my spirit fails.
Do not hide your face from me,
or I will become
like _those_ descending to _the_ pit.

###### v8
Cause me to hear your loyal love in the morning,
for I trust you.
Cause me to know the way that I should go,
for I lift up my soul to you.

###### v9
Deliver me from my enemies, O Yahweh.
I take refuge in you. ^[This reading for the difficult Hebrew "I cover to you" is suggested by the LXX]

###### v10
Teach me to do your will, for you _are_ my God;
your Spirit _is_ good.
Lead me onto level ground.

###### v11
For your name's sake, O Yahweh, preserve my life;
in your righteousness bring me ^[Hebrew "my soul"] out of trouble.

###### v12
And in your loyal love destroy my enemies,
and exterminate all _the_ adversaries of my soul,
for I _am_ your servant.