---
aliases:
  - Psalms 103
---

[[Ps-102|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-104|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Bless Yahweh, O my soul,
and all within me, _bless_ his holy name.

###### v2
Bless Yahweh, O my soul,
and do not forget all his benefits:

###### v3
who forgives all your iniquity,
who heals all your diseases,

###### v4
who redeems your life from _the_ pit,
who crowns you with loyal love and mercies,

###### v5
who satisfies your life with good
so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.

###### v6
Yahweh does deeds of justice
and judgments for all _who_ are oppressed,

###### v7
_who_ made known his ways to Moses,
his deeds to the _people_ ^[Literally "sons"] of Israel.

###### v8
Yahweh _is_ compassionate and gracious,
_slow to anger_ ^[Literally "long of nostrils"] and abundant in loyal love.

###### v9
He does not dispute continually,
nor keep _his anger_ forever.

###### v10
He has not dealt with us according to our sins,
nor repaid us according to our iniquities.

###### v11
For as _the_ heavens are high above the earth,
_so_ his loyal love prevails over those who fear him.

###### v12
As far as east _is_ from west,
_so_ he has removed far from us _the guilt of_ our transgressions.

###### v13
As a father pities ^[Or "shows compassion to"] _his_ children,
_so_ Yahweh pities ^[Or "shows compassion to"] those who fear him.

###### v14
For he knows our frame. ^[That is, how we are formed]
He remembers that we _are_ dust.

###### v15
As for man, his days _are_ like the grass.
As the flower of the field, so he blossoms.

###### v16
When _the_ wind passes over it, it is no more,
and its place knows it no longer.

###### v17
But the loyal love of Yahweh
_is_ from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him,
and his righteousness to _their_ children's children,

###### v18
to those who keep his covenant
and remember to do his precepts.

###### v19
Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens,
and his kingdom rules over all.

###### v20
Bless Yahweh, you his angels,
_you_ mighty heroes who do his word
by _obeying_ ^[Literally "hearing"] the sound of his word.

###### v21
Bless Yahweh, all you his hosts,
_you_ his attendants who do his will.

###### v22
Bless Yahweh, all his works, ^[That is, created things]
in all the places of his dominion.
Bless Yahweh, O my soul.