---
aliases:
  - Psalms 102
---

[[Ps-101|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-103|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, hear my prayer,
and let my cry for help come to you.

###### v2
Do not hide your face from me
in _the_ day _of_ my trouble.
Incline your ear to me.
In the day I call, answer me quickly,

###### v3
for my days vanish in smoke,
and my bones are charred like a hearth.

###### v4
My heart is struck like grass and withers.
Indeed, I forget to eat ^[A rare homonym might yield "I am too wilted to eat"] my bread.

###### v5
Because of the sound of my groaning
my bones ^[Hebrew "bone"] cling to my skin. ^[Hebrew "flesh"]

###### v6
I am like an owl ^[The identity of the birds in this verse is uncertain] of _the_ wilderness;
I am like a little owl of _the_ ruins.

###### v7
I lie awake and I am
like a lone bird on a roof.

###### v8
All the day my enemies reproach me;
those who mock me swear _oaths_ against me.

###### v9
Indeed, I eat ashes like bread
and mix my drink with tears ^[Hebrew "weeping"]

###### v10
because of your indignation and anger,
for you have picked me up and thrown me away.

###### v11
My days _are_ like a lengthened shadow,
and I wither like grass.

###### v12
But you, O Yahweh, abide ^[Or "sit enthroned"] forever,
and your remembrance ^[Or "name"] _from generation to generation_. ^[Literally "to a generation and a generation"]

###### v13
You rise up and take pity on Zion,
because _it is_ time to favor it,
for _the_ appointed time has come.

###### v14
Your servants take pleasure in her stones,
and show favor to its dust.

###### v15
Then _the_ nations will fear the name of Yahweh,
and all the kings of the earth your glory.

###### v16
For Yahweh will rebuild Zion;
he will appear in his glory.

###### v17
He will turn his attention to the prayer of the destitute
and will not despise their prayer.

###### v18
Let this be written for _the_ next generation,
so that a people _yet_ to be created may praise Yah, ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]

###### v19
that he looked down from his holy height.
Yahweh looked from heaven over _the_ earth

###### v20
to hear _the_ groaning of _the_ prisoner,
to liberate _those destined to die_, ^[Hebrew "_the_ sons of death"]

###### v21
so that _they ^[That is, the generation that reads what is written] may_ make known in Zion the name of Yahweh,
and his praise in Jerusalem,

###### v22
when the peoples assemble,
together with ^[Hebrew "and"] kingdoms, to serve Yahweh.

###### v23
He has broken my strength along the way;
he has cut short my days.

###### v24
I say, "My God, do not carry me off
from my life in the middle of my days."
Your years _continue_ throughout all generations.

###### v25
Long ago you laid the foundation of the earth,
and _the_ heavens _are_ the work of your hands.

###### v26
They will perish, but you will endure.
And like a garment they will all wear out,
you will replace them like clothing, and they will be set aside.

###### v27
But you _are_ the same,
and your years do not end.

###### v28
The children of your servants will continue,
and their _descendants_ ^[Literally "seed"] will be established before you.