---
aliases:
  - Psalms 139
---

[[Ps-138|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-140|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, you have searched me, and you know _me_.

###### v2
You know my sitting down and my rising up.
You understand my thought from afar.

###### v3
You search out ^[Hebrew "winnow"; or perhaps from another root, "measure"] my wandering and my lying down,
and are acquainted with all my ways.

###### v4
For _there is_ not a word _yet_ on my tongue,
_but_ behold, O Yahweh, you know it completely.

###### v5
You barricade me behind and in front,
and set your hand upon me.

###### v6
_Such_ knowledge is too wonderful for me.
It is set high; I cannot _prevail_ against it.

###### v7
Where I can go from your Spirit,
or where can I flee from your presence?

###### v8
If I ascend to heaven, there you _are_,
and if I make my bed _in_ Sheol, look! _There_ you _are_.

###### v9
If I lift up _the_ wings of _the_ dawn,
_and_ I alight on _the_ far side of _the_ sea,

###### v10
even there your hand would lead me,
and your right hand would hold me fast.

###### v11
And if I should say, "Surely darkness will cover me,
and _the_ light around me _will be as_ night,"

###### v12
even _the_ darkness is not too dark for you, ^[Or "does not obscure from you"]
and _the_ night shines as the day--
the darkness _and_ the light are alike _for you_.

###### v13
Indeed you created my _inward parts_; ^[Literally "kidneys"]
you wove me in my mother's womb.

###### v14
I praise you, because I am fearfully
_and_ wonderfully _made_. ^[Or "I am made wonderful fearfully"]
Wonderful _are_ your works,
and my soul knows _it_ well.

###### v15
My _frame_ ^[Literally "bone"] was not hidden from you,
when I was created secretly, ^[Or "in the secret _place_"]
_and_ intricately woven
in _the_ depths of _the_ earth.

###### v16
Your eyes saw my embryo, ^[Hebrew "unformed substance"]
and in your book they all were written--
days fashioned _for me_ when _there was_ not one of them.

###### v17
And to me, how precious ^[Or "difficult"] are your thoughts, O God;
how vast is their sum.

###### v18
If I should count them,
they would outnumber _the_ sand.
I awaken, and I _am_ still with you.

###### v19
If only you would kill the wicked, O God--
so get away from me, _you_ _bloodthirsty men_-- ^[Literally "men of bloods"]

###### v20
who speak against you deceitfully.
Your enemies take _your name_ in vain.

###### v21
Do I not hate those who hate you, O Yahweh?
And do I _not_ loathe those who rise up against you?

###### v22
I hate them with a complete hatred;
they have become my enemies.

###### v23
Search me, O God, and know my heart;
test me and know my anxious thoughts.

###### v24
And see if _there is_ in me _the worship of false gods_, ^[Literally "a way of an idol"]
and lead me in _the_ way everlasting.