---
aliases:
  - Psalms 106
---

[[Ps-105|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-107|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Praise Yah. ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_] Give thanks to Yahweh, for _he is_ good,
for his loyal love _is_ forever.

###### v2
Who can utter the mighty deeds of Yahweh,
_or_ proclaim all his praise?

###### v3
Blessed are _those who_ observe justice,
_he who_ does righteousness at all times.

###### v4
Remember me, O Yahweh, when _you show_ favor to your people.
Look after me when you deliver,

###### v5
that _I_ may see the good _done_ your chosen ones,
to be glad in the joy of your nation,
to glory together with your inheritance.

###### v6
We have sinned _along_ with our ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]
We have committed iniquity; we have incurred guilt.

###### v7
Our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in Egypt did not understand your wonderful works.
They did not remember your many acts of loyal love,
and _so_ they rebelled by _the_ sea at _the Red Sea_. ^[Literally "sea of reed"]

###### v8
Yet he saved them for the sake of his name,
to make known his might.

###### v9
So he rebuked _the Red Sea_, ^[Literally "sea of reed"] and it dried up,
and he led them through the deep as _through_ a desert.

###### v10
Thus he saved them from _the_ hand of _the_ hater
and redeemed them from _the_ hand of _the_ enemy.

###### v11
But waters covered their adversaries;
not one of them survived.

###### v12
Then they believed his words;
they sang his praise.

###### v13
They quickly forgot his works;
they did not wait for his counsel.

###### v14
And they _craved intensely_ ^[Literally "craved a craving"] in the wilderness,
and tested God in _the_ desert.

###### v15
So he gave to them their request,
but he sent leanness into their souls. ^[Hebrew "soul" or "inner self"]

###### v16
And they were jealous of Moses in the camp,
_and_ of Aaron, the holy one of Yahweh.

###### v17
_The_ earth opened and swallowed up Dathan,
and it covered over the gang of Abiram.

###### v18
Also fire burned in their assembly;
_the_ flame devoured _the_ wicked.

###### v19
They made a calf at Horeb
and bowed down to a cast image.

###### v20
And _so_ they exchanged their glory
for an image of an ox that eats grass.

###### v21
They forgot God their Savior,
who had done great things in Egypt,

###### v22
wonders in the land of Ham,
awesome deeds by _the Red Sea_. ^[Literally "sea of reed"]

###### v23
So he said he would exterminate them,
had not Moses, his chosen one,
stood in the breach before him,
to reverse his wrath from destroying _them_.

###### v24
Then they refused the desirable land;
they did not believe his word,

###### v25
but grumbled in their tents.
They did not obey the voice of Yahweh.

###### v26
So _he made an oath_ ^[Literally "he lifted his hand," an act accompanying an oath] against them,
to make them drop in the wilderness,

###### v27
and to disperse ^[Or "let drop"] their _descendants_ ^[Literally "seed"] among the nations
and to scatter them among the lands.

###### v28
They also attached themselves to Baal of Peor,
and they ate sacrifices offered to _the_ dead. ^[Hebrew "sacrifices of dead"]

###### v29
Thus they provoked to anger by their deeds,
and a plague broke out among them.

###### v30
Then Phinehas stood up and intervened,
and _so_ the plague was stopped,

###### v31
and it was reckoned to him as righteousness
_throughout all generations_. ^[Literally "for a generation and a generation"]

###### v32
They also angered _God_ at the waters of Meribah,
and it went badly for Moses on account of them,

###### v33
because they rebelled against his Spirit, ^[A slightly different verbal form yields "they embittered his spirit"]
and he spoke thoughtlessly with his lips.

###### v34
They did not exterminate the peoples,
as Yahweh had commanded them,  ^[Hebrew "said to them"]

###### v35
but they mingled with the nations
and learned their works,

###### v36
and served their idols,
which became ^[Hebrew "and they became"] a snare to them.

###### v37
They even sacrificed their sons and daughters
to the demons,

###### v38
and they poured out innocent blood,
the blood of their sons and daughters,
whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan,
and _so_ the land was defiled with the blood. ^[Hebrew "bloods," that is, bloodshed]

###### v39
And they became unclean by their works,
and were unfaithful in their deeds.

###### v40
So Yahweh's anger burned against his people,
and he abhorred his inheritance.

###### v41
Then he gave them into _the_ hand of _the_ nations,
and those who hated them ruled over them.

###### v42
And their enemies oppressed them,
and they were subdued under their hand.

###### v43
Many times he delivered them,
but they rebelled in their counsel,
and were brought low by their iniquity.

###### v44
Yet he looked upon their distress
when he heard their cry.

###### v45
And he remembered his covenant with them,
and relented based on the abundance of his loyal love.

###### v46
And he _let them find compassion_ ^[Literally "gave them to _have_ mercies"]
before all their captors.

###### v47
Save us, O Yahweh our God,
and gather us from the nations,
so that _we may_ give thanks to your holy name
_and_ boast in your praise.

###### v48
Blessed _is_ Yahweh, the God of Israel,
from everlasting and to everlasting.
And let all the people say, "Amen!"
Praise Yah. ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]