---
aliases:
  - Psalms 132
---

[[Ps-131|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-133|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, remember with regard to David
all his affliction. ^[Hebrew "his being afflicted"]

###### v2
How he swore to Yahweh,
he vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob:

###### v3
"I will not enter into the tent of my house,
I will not go up to the couch of my bed,

###### v4
I will give no sleep to my eyes,
_no_ slumber to my eyelids,

###### v5
until I find a place for Yahweh,
a dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob."

###### v6
Look, we heard of it in Ephrathah;
we found her in the fields of Jaar. ^[Or "the fields of the woods"]

###### v7
Let us go to his dwelling places; ^[That is, the temple]
Let us worship at his footstool.

###### v8
Arise, O Yahweh, to your resting place,
you and your mighty ark.

###### v9
Let your priests clothe themselves with righteousness,
and let your faithful sing for joy.

###### v10
For the sake of your servant David,
do not turn away the face of your anointed one.

###### v11
Yahweh swore _in_ truth to David;
he will not turn back from it.
"One from the fruit of your _body_ ^[Literally "belly"]
I will set on your throne.

###### v12
If your sons will heed my covenant
and my testimonies that I will teach them,
their sons also forever
will sit on your throne."

###### v13
For Yahweh has chosen Zion;
he has desired it for his habitation.

###### v14
"This _is_ my resting place forever;
here I will dwell, for I have desired it.

###### v15
I will bless its provisions abundantly;
I will satisfy its poor with bread.

###### v16
I will also clothe its priests with salvation,
and its faithful will shout exuberantly for joy.

###### v17
There I will cause a horn to grow for David;
I will set a lamp for my anointed one.

###### v18
I will clothe his enemies with shame,
but on him his crown will flourish." ^[Or "shine"]