---
aliases:
  - Psalms 147
---

[[Ps-146|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-148|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Praise Yah. ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_; here and v. [[Ps-147#v20|20]]]
For _it is_ good to sing praises _to_ our God;
for _it is_ pleasant; praise is fitting.

###### v2
Yahweh _is_ building Jerusalem;
he gathers _the_ scattered ones of Israel.

###### v3
_He is_ the one who heals the brokenhearted,
and binds up their wounds.

###### v4
_He_ counts _the_ number of the stars;
he gives names to all of them.

###### v5
Great _is_ our Lord, and abundant in power;
his understanding is unlimited.

###### v6
Yahweh helps the afflicted up;
_he_ brings _the_ wicked down to _the_ ground.

###### v7
Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving;
sing praises to our God with lyre,

###### v8
who covers _the_ heavens with clouds,
who provides rain for the earth,
who causes grass to grow on the mountains.

###### v9
_He_ gives to _the_ animal its food,
_and_ to _the_ young ravens that cry.

###### v10
He does not delight in the strength of the horse;
he takes no pleasure in the legs of the man.

###### v11
Yahweh takes pleasure in those who fear him,
the ones who hope ^[That is, "wait expectantly"] for his loyal love.

###### v12
Laud Yahweh, O Jerusalem;
praise your God, O Zion,

###### v13
for he strengthens the bars of your gates.
He blesses your children within you;

###### v14
_he_ makes your border peaceful;
he satisfies you with _the_ _finest of wheat_. ^[Literally "_the_ fat of the wheat"]

###### v15
_He_ sends out his command ^[Or "utterance"] to _the_ earth;
his word runs swiftly.

###### v16
_He_ gives snow like wool;
he scatters frost like ashes;

###### v17
_he_ throws his hail like crumbs.
Who can stand before his cold? ^[With slight alteration of the Hebrew, the line might read "before his cold water stands"]

###### v18
He sends out his word and melts them;
he blows his breath, the water flows.

###### v19
_He_ declares his word to Jacob,
his statutes and his ordinances to Israel.

###### v20
He has not done so for any nation,
and they do not know _his_ ordinances.
Praise Yah. ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]