---
aliases:
  - Psalms 145
---

[[Ps-144|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-146|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I will exalt you, my God, O king,
and I will bless ^[That is, praise; here and v. [[Ps-145#v2|2]]] your name forever and ever.

###### v2
Every day I will bless you
and praise your name forever and ever.

###### v3
Great _is_ Yahweh, and very worthy of praise,
and his greatness is unsearchable.

###### v4
One generation will laud your works to another,
and will declare your mighty deeds.

###### v5
On the splendor of the glory of your majesty,
and on your wonderful deeds, I will meditate.

###### v6
And they will speak of the power of your awesome deeds, ^[That is, deeds that evoke a fearful reverence]
and I will tell of your greatness. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)]

###### v7
They will utter  ^[Hebrew "pour forth"] the renown of your abundant goodness,
and they will proclaim with joy your righteousness.

###### v8
Yahweh _is_ gracious and compassionate,
_slow to anger_ ^[Literally "long of nostrils"] and great in loyal love.

###### v9
Yahweh _is_ good to all,
and his mercies _are_ over all his works.

###### v10
All your works will praise you, O Yahweh,
and your faithful ones will bless ^[That is, praise] you.

###### v11
They will speak of the glory of your kingdom,
and talk of your power,

###### v12
to make known to the children of humankind his mighty deeds,
and the glory of the majesty of his kingdom.

###### v13
Your kingdom _is_ an everlasting kingdom,
and your dominion _endures_ _throughout all generations_. ^[Literally "for a generation and a generation"]

###### v14
Yahweh upholds all who are falling,
and raises up all who are bowed down.

###### v15
_The_ eyes of all look hopefully to you,
and you give them their food in due time,

###### v16
opening your hand,
and satisfying _the_ desire _of_ every living creature.

###### v17
Yahweh _is_ righteous in all his ways,
and loyal in all his works.

###### v18
Yahweh _is_ near to all who call on him,
to all who call on him in truth.

###### v19
He fulfills the desire of those who fear him;
he also hears their cry for help, and saves them.

###### v20
Yahweh protects all those who love him,
but all the wicked he will exterminate.

###### v21
My mouth will speak the praise of Yahweh,
and all flesh will bless his holy name
forever and ever.