---
aliases:
  - Psalms 144
---

[[Ps-143|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-145|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Blessed be Yahweh, my rock,
the one who trains my hands for battle,
my fingers for war--

###### v2
my loyal love and my fortress,
my stronghold and my deliverer,
my shield, and _one_ in whom I take refuge,
the one who subdues peoples ^[Reading with many Hebrew manuscripts and versions; MT reads "my people"] under me.

###### v3
O Yahweh, what _is_ humankind that you take knowledge of him,
_or the_ son of man that you take thought of him?

###### v4
Humankind is like a breath,
his days like a passing shadow.

###### v5
O Yahweh, bow the heavens and come down;
touch the mountains so that they smoke.

###### v6
Flash forth lightning and scatter them;
dispatch your arrows and rout them.

###### v7
Stretch out your hands from on high;
Rescue me and deliver me from many waters,
from _the_ hand of foreigners,

###### v8
whose mouth speaks falsely,
and their right hand _is_ a false right hand.

###### v9
O God, I will sing a new song to you.
With a lyre of ten _strings_ I will sing praise to you,

###### v10
who gives victory to kings,
who rescues David his servant
from _the_ evil sword.

###### v11
Rescue me and deliver me
from _the_ hand of foreigners,
whose mouth speaks falsely,
and whose right hand _is_ a false right hand,

###### v12
that our sons _may be_ like plants,
full grown in their youth,
our daughters like corner pillars,
carved in the style of a palace,

###### v13
_that_ our granaries _may be_ full,
providing _produce_ of all kinds, ^[Hebrew "from kind to kind"]
_that_ our sheep _may_ produce by the thousands,
by the tens of thousands in our open fields,

###### v14
_that_ our cattle _may be_ pregnant;
_that there be_ no breach _in our walls_,
and no going out _in exile_,
and no outcry in our plazas.

###### v15
Blessed _are_ the people who have _it_ thus.
Blessed _are_ the people whose God _is_ Yahweh.