---
aliases:
  - Psalms 104
---

[[Ps-103|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-105|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Bless Yahweh, O my soul.
O Yahweh my God, you are very great.
You clothe yourself _with_ splendor and majesty,

###### v2
_you_ who cover _yourself_ with light as _with_ a garment,
who stretch out _the_ heavens like a tent curtain,

###### v3
the one who sets beams in the waters _for_ his upper chambers,
who makes clouds his chariot,
who rides ^[Hebrew "goes"] on _the_ wings of _the_ wind,

###### v4
who makes his messengers _the_ winds,
his attendants a flame of fire.

###### v5
He established _the_ earth on her foundations,
_so that_ it will not be moved forever and ever.

###### v6
You covered it with _the_ deep as with a garment.
_The_ waters stood above _the_ mountains.

###### v7
At your rebuke they fled;
at the sound of your thunder they ran off.

###### v8
They ascended _the_ mountains _and_ drained though the valleys
to _the_ place that you established ^[Or "appointed"] for them.

###### v9
You set a boundary that they may not cross over,
_so that_ they would not return to cover the earth.

###### v10
_You are_ the one who sends forth springs into the valleys;
they flow between _the_ mountains.

###### v11
They give drink for every beast of _the_ field.
_The_ wild donkeys _quench_ ^[Literally "break"] their thirst.

###### v12
Along them the birds of the heavens abide.
From among _the_ branches they _sing_. ^[Literally "give voice"]

###### v13
_You are the one who_ _waters_ ^[Literally "give drink"] _the_ mountains
from his upper chambers.
The earth is full ^[Or "is sated"] with the fruit of your labors:

###### v14
_who_ causes grass to grow for the cattle
and herbs for the service of humankind,
to bring forth food from the earth,

###### v15
and wine _that_ makes glad _the_ heart of man,
so that _their_ faces shine from oil,
and bread _that_ strengthens the heart of man.

###### v16
The trees of Yahweh drink their fill,
the cedars of Lebanon that he planted,

###### v17
where birds make _their_ nest.
_The_ stork _has_ its home in _the_ fir trees.

###### v18
The high mountains _are_ for the wild goats;
_the_ cliffs _are_ a refuge for the rock badgers.

###### v19
He made _the_ moon for appointed times;
_the_ sun knows its _time for_ setting.

###### v20
You make darkness, and it is night,
when ^[Hebrew "in it"] all _the_ animals of the forest creep about.

###### v21
The young lions _are_ roaring for the prey
and seeking their food from God.

###### v22
_When_ the sun rises, they gather together
and lie down in their dens.

###### v23
Humankind goes out to its work,
and to its labor until evening.

###### v24
How many are your works, O Yahweh;
all of them you have done in wisdom.
The earth is full of your creatures.

###### v25
This _is_ the great and _wide_ ^[Literally "broad of hands"] sea,
in which _are_ moving animals without number,
living things small and great.

###### v26
There _the_ ships sail.
Leviathan _is there_ that you formed to play with. ^[For this construction meaning "to play with," see Job 40:29 (Eng: 41:5)]

###### v27
They all wait for you
to give _them_ their food _at the proper time_. ^[Literally "in its season"]

###### v28
You give to them; they gather _it_.
You open your hand, they are filled with _what is_ good.

###### v29
You hide your face, they are terrified.
You take away their breath, they die
and return to their dust.

###### v30
You send forth your Spirit, ^[Or "breath"] they are created,
and you renew the face of _the_ ground.

###### v31
May the glory of Yahweh endure forever.
May Yahweh be glad in his works,

###### v32
the one who looks at the earth and it quakes,
and touches the mountains and they smoke.

###### v33
I will sing to Yahweh throughout my life;
I will sing praise to my God while _I remain alive_. ^[Literally "while I am still"]

###### v34
May my meditation be pleasing to him.
I will be glad in Yahweh.

###### v35
Let sinners perish completely from the earth,
and _the_ wicked _not remain alive_. ^[Literally "they are not still"]
Bless Yahweh, O my soul.
Praise Yah. ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]