---
aliases:
  - Psalms 18
---

[[Ps-17|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-19|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And he said:
"I love you, O Yahweh, my strength."

###### v2
Yahweh _is_ my rock and my fortress and my deliverer,
my God, my rock in whom I have taken refuge,
my shield and the horn of my deliverance, my stronghold.

###### v3
I called upon Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised,
and I was saved from my enemies.

###### v4
The ropes of death encircled me,
and streams of ruin overwhelmed me.

###### v5
The ropes of Sheol surrounded me;
_the_ snares of death confronted me.

###### v6
In my trouble I called on Yahweh,
and to my God I cried for help.
He heard my voice from his temple,
and my cry for help
came up before his presence into his ears.

###### v7
Then the earth shook and quaked,
and _the_ foundations of _the_ mountains trembled,
and they staggered because he was angry.

###### v8
Smoke went forth from his nose,
and fire from his mouth consumed.
Burning coals blazed from him.

###### v9
So he bowed _the_ heavens and came down
with a thick cloud under his feet.

###### v10
And he mounted a cherub and flew,
and he swooped down on wings of wind.

###### v11
He made darkness his hiding place;
all about him his covering
_was_ a darkness of waters, _thick clouds_. ^[Literally "clouds of clouds"]

###### v12
From the brightness before him
his clouds passed over
_with_ hail and coals of fire.

###### v13
And Yahweh thundered from the heavens,
and the Most High uttered his voice
_with_ hail and coals of fire.

###### v14
And he shot his arrows and scattered them, ^[That is, the enemy]
and many lightning bolts and routed them.

###### v15
Then the channels of _the_ sea became visible,
and _the_ foundations of _the_ world were uncovered
by your rebuke, O Yahweh,
by the _blast_ ^[Or "breath"] of the wind of your nose.

###### v16
He reached ^[Or "sent"] from on high; he seized me.
He drew me from many waters.

###### v17
He delivered me from my strong enemy,
and from _those who_ hated me
because they were stronger than I.

###### v18
They confronted me on the day of disaster,
but Yahweh was my support.

###### v19
So he brought me out to a spacious place.
He delivered me because he delighted in me.

###### v20
Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness;
According to the cleanness of my hands
he has repaid me.

###### v21
Because I have kept the ways of Yahweh,
and have not acted wickedly against my God,

###### v22
because all his ordinances _are_ before me,
and his statutes I have not removed from me,

###### v23
and I was blameless before him,
and I kept myself from my guilt.

###### v24
Therefore Yahweh has repaid me according to my righteousness,
according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight.

###### v25
To _the_ loyal you show yourself loyal.
To _the_ blameless you show yourself blameless.

###### v26
To _the_ pure you show yourself pure.
but to _the_ wicked you show yourself shrewd.

###### v27
For you deliver humble people,
but haughty eyes you humiliate.

###### v28
For you light my lamp;
Yahweh, my God, lights up my darkness.

###### v29
For with you I can charge a troop,
and with my God I can scale a wall.

###### v30
This ^[Hebrew "The"] God--his way _is_ blameless.
The word of Yahweh _is_ flawless. ^[Or "refined"]
He _is_ a shield for all those who take refuge in him.

###### v31
For who _is_ God apart from Yahweh,
and who _is_ a rock except our God?

###### v32
The God who girded me _with_ strength,
and made safe ^[Or "blameless"] my way,

###### v33
he made my feet like the deer's,
and on my high places he makes me stand.

###### v34
_He_ trains my hands for war,
so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.

###### v35
You also gave me the shield of your salvation,
and your right hand supported me,
and your humility made me great.

###### v36
You enlarged my step under me,
and my ankles did not slip.

###### v37
I chased my enemies and overtook them;
I did not turn back until they were finished _off_.

###### v38
I struck them and they were not able to stand up;
they fell under my feet.

###### v39
And you girded me _with_ strength for the battle;
_those_ rising against me you made to kneel under me.

###### v40
And you _made my enemies turn their backs_, ^[Literally "turned to me my enemies' neck"]
then I destroyed those _who_ hated me.

###### v41
They cried out but there was no rescuer,
_even_ to Yahweh, but he did not answer them.

###### v42
And I ground them like dust _in the wind_, ^[Literally "on _the_ face of _the_ wind"]
I emptied them ^[Many Hebrew manuscripts, the LXX, Syriac, and [[2 Sam-22#v43|2 Sam 22:43]] read "I crushed them"] out like mud of _the_ streets.

###### v43
You rescued me from strife with people;
you set me as head (over) nations.
People I did not know served me;

###### v44
as soon as _they heard_, ^[Literally "hearing of ear"] they obeyed me.
_The_ children of a foreign land feigned obedience before me.

###### v45
_The_ children of a foreign land _lost heart_, ^[Literally "sunk down"]
and they came trembling from their strongholds.

###### v46
Yahweh lives, and blessed _be_ my rock,
and may the God of my salvation be exalted--

###### v47
the God who executed vengeance for me,
and subdued peoples under me,

###### v48
who delivered me from my enemies.
Indeed, you exalted me higher than _those who_ rose against me.
You delivered me from the man of violence.

###### v49
Therefore I will give thanks to you among the nations, O Yahweh,
and I will sing _the praise_ of your name:

###### v50
the one who makes great victories for his king,
and _who_ shows loyal love for his anointed,
to David and to his descendants forever.