---
aliases:
  - Psalms 105
---

[[Ps-104|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-106|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Give thanks to Yahweh; proclaim his name;
make known his deeds among the peoples.

###### v2
Sing to him; sing praises concerning him;
tell of all his wonderful works.

###### v3
Boast about his holy name.
Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh rejoice.

###### v4
Make supplication to Yahweh and his might;
seek his face continually.

###### v5
Remember his wonders that he has done,
his signs and the judgments of his mouth,

###### v6
O offspring of Abraham his servant,
_you_ descendants ^[Or "children," or "sons"] of Jacob, his chosen ones.

###### v7
He _is_ Yahweh our God;
his judgments _are_ in all the earth.

###### v8
He remembers his covenant forever,
_the_ word _that_ he commanded
for a thousand generations,

###### v9
that he made with Abraham,
and by his oath _swore_ to Isaac.

###### v10
He then confirmed it to Jacob as a statute,
to Israel _as_ an everlasting covenant,

###### v11
saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan
_as_ the allotment _that is_ your ^[Hebrew plural] inheritance."

###### v12
When they were _few in number_ ^[Literally "men of number," that is, so few you could count them]--
a trifle--and _were_ sojourners in it,

###### v13
and they wandered about _among the nations_, ^[Literally "from people to people"]
from _one_ kingdom to another people,

###### v14
he allowed no one to oppress them,
and he rebuked kings on account of them,

###### v15
"Do not touch my anointed ones,
nor harm my prophets."

###### v16
Then he called for a famine upon the land;
he broke every _supply_ ^[Literally "staff"] of bread.

###### v17
He sent a man on ahead of them;
Joseph was sold as a slave.

###### v18
They clamped ^[Hebrew "oppressed, hurt"] his feet in fetters. ^[Hebrew "fetter"]
His neck ^[Hebrew _nephesh_ can designate the life, soul, appetite, desire, or throat/neck.] went into irons. ^[Hebrew "iron"]

###### v19
Until _the_ time his word came about,
the word of Yahweh tested ^[Or "refined"] him.

###### v20
_The_ king sent and he freed him;
_the_ ruler of _the_ peoples _sent_ and let him loose.

###### v21
He made him lord of his house
and ruler of all his possessions,

###### v22
to obligate ^[Hebrew "to bind, imprison" The LXX's "to instruct" presupposes _ysr_ instead of _'sr_, and might be correct in light of the parallelism that is fairly tight in this psalm] his officials _as he saw fit_ ^[Literally "in his desire _soul_"]
and teach his elders wisdom.

###### v23
Then Israel came _to_ Egypt,
and Jacob was a sojourner in the land of Ham.

###### v24
And he ^[That is, God] made his people very fruitful.
He also made them ^[Hebrew "him"] stronger than their ^[Hebrew "his"] enemies.

###### v25
He turned their heart to hate his people,
to deal deceitfully against his servants.

###### v26
He sent his servant Moses,
together with Aaron whom he had chosen.

###### v27
They set before them the words concerning his signs
and portents in the land of Ham.

###### v28
He sent darkness and made _it_ dark,
and they did not rebel against his words.

###### v29
He turned their waters into blood
and it killed their fish.

###### v30
Their land swarmed with frogs,
_even_ in the chambers of their kings.

###### v31
He spoke, and there came flies
_and_ gnats throughout all their territory. ^[Hebrew "borders"]

###### v32
He gave hail for their rains
_and the_ fire of lightning in their land.

###### v33
And he struck their vines and fig trees,
and shattered the trees of their territory.

###### v34
He spoke and there came locusts
and young locusts without number.

###### v35
And they ate up all _the_ vegetation in their land,
and they ate up the fruit of their ground.

###### v36
And he struck down all _the_ firstborn in their land,
_the_ first of all their virility.

###### v37
Then he brought them out with silver and gold,
and there was none among his tribes who stumbled.

###### v38
Egypt was glad when they departed,
because the fear of them ^[That is, Israel] had fallen upon them.

###### v39
He spread out a cloud for a covering,
and fire to give light at night.

###### v40
They ^[Hebrew "He"] asked, and he brought quail,
and satisfied them with _the_ bread of heaven.

###### v41
He opened _the_ rock and waters flowed;
they coursed ^[Or "surged"] through the dry places _like_ a river.

###### v42
For he remembered his holy _promise_; ^[Literally "word"]
_he remembered_ Abraham his servant.

###### v43
And _so_ he brought out his people with joy,
his chosen ones with rejoicing.

###### v44
And he gave to them _the_ lands of _the_ nations,
and they inherited _the_ labor of _the_ peoples,

###### v45
so that they might observe his statutes,
and keep his laws.
Praise Yah. ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]