---
aliases:
  - Psalms 17
---

[[Ps-16|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-18|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, hear a just cause.
Hear my cry; heed my prayer
_I make_ without deceitful lips.

###### v2
Let my vindication come forth from you;
let your eyes see fairness.

###### v3
You have tried my heart;
you have examined _me_ by night;
you have tested me; you found nothing.
I have decided _that_ my mouth will not transgress.

###### v4
As for _the_ works of humankind,
by the word of your lips,
I have kept _from_ the ways of _the_ violent.

###### v5
_I have_ held my steps in your path
My feet will not slip.

###### v6
As for me, I have called on you
because you will answer me, O God.
Incline your ear to me.
Hear my words. ^[Hebrew "word"]

###### v7
Show wondrously your acts of loyal love,
O Savior of those who take refuge
at your right hand ^[Or "saving by your right hand those"]
from those who rise up against _them_.

###### v8
Keep me as _the apple of your eye_. ^[Literally "_the_ little man of the daughter of _your_ eye"]
Hide me in the shadow of your wings

###### v9
from _the_ _presence_ ^[Literally "face"] of _the_ wicked who destroy me,
_those_ enemies against my life,
_they that_ surround me.

###### v10
They have shut off their calloused ^[Or "fat"] _heart_;
_with_ their mouth they speak arrogantly.

###### v11
Now they surround us at our _every_ step.
They _intend_ ^[Literally "set their eyes"]
_to pin_ ^[Literally "to stretch"] _me_ to the ground.

###### v12
_He is like_ ^[Literally "His image"] a lion; he longs to tear apart,
and like a strong lion crouching in hiding places.

###### v13
Rise up, O Yahweh, confront _him_. ^[Literally "his face"]
Make him bow down.
Rescue with your sword my life from _the_ wicked,

###### v14
from men by your hand, O Yahweh, from men of _this_ world.
Their share _is_ in _this life_, ^[Literally "the life"] and you fill their stomach _with_ your treasure.
They are satisfied _with_ children.
They bequeath their excess to their children.

###### v15
_By contrast,_ I in righteousness shall see your face.
Upon awakening I will be satisfied _seeing_ your form.