---
aliases:
  - Psalms 135
---

[[Ps-134|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-136|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Praise Yah! ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_] Praise the name of Yahweh.
Praise _him_, O servants of Yahweh,

###### v2
who stand in the house ^[Or "temple"] of Yahweh,
in the courts of the house ^[Or "temple"] of our God.

###### v3
Praise Yah, ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"] for Yahweh _is_ good.
Sing praises concerning his name, for _it is_ pleasant.

###### v4
For Yah has chosen Jacob for himself,
Israel as his special possession.

###### v5
For I know that Yahweh _is_ great,
and our Lord _is greater_ than all gods.

###### v6
All that Yahweh desires, he does,
in heaven and on earth,
in the seas and all _the_ depths.

###### v7
_He_ causes clouds to rise from the edge of the earth;
he makes lightnings for the rain;
_he_ brings out _the_ wind from his storehouses.

###### v8
Who struck the firstborn of Egypt,
both of humans ^[Hebrew "human"] and animals. ^[Hebrew "animal"]

###### v9
He sent signs and wonders into your midst, O Egypt,
against Pharaoh and all his servants.

###### v10
Who struck many nations
and killed mighty kings--

###### v11
Sihon the king of the Amorites,
and Og the king of Bashan,
and all the kingdoms of Canaan--

###### v12
and he gave their land as an inheritance,
an inheritance for his people Israel.

###### v13
O Yahweh, your name _endures_ forever,
your _renown_ ^[Literally "remembrance"] _throughout all generations_, ^[Literally "for a generation and a generation"]

###### v14
for Yahweh will plead _the_ cause _of_ his people
and will have compassion on his servants.

###### v15
The idols of the nations _are_ silver and gold,
_the_ work of the hands of humankind.

###### v16
They have mouths, but cannot speak;
they have eyes, but cannot see;

###### v17
they have ears, but cannot hear;
there is not even breath in their mouths.

###### v18
_Those who_ make them become like them,
_as does_ everyone who trusts in them.

###### v19
O house of Israel, bless Yahweh.
O house of Aaron, bless Yahweh.

###### v20
O house of Levi, bless Yahweh.
_You who_ fear Yahweh, bless Yahweh.

###### v21
Blessed _be_ Yahweh from Zion,
who dwells _in_ Jerusalem. Praise Yah! ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]