---
aliases:
  - Psalms 10
---

[[Ps-09|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-11|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Why, O Yahweh, do you stand far off?
_Why_ do you hide ^[Or "shut _your eyes_"] during times of distress?

###### v2
In arrogance _the_ wicked persecutes ^[Or "pursues"] _the_ poor.
Let them be caught in _the_ schemes that they devised,

###### v3
for _the_ wicked boasts about the desire of his _heart_, ^[Literally "soul"]
and _the_ one greedy for gain curses _and_ treats Yahweh with contempt.

###### v4
_With bald-faced pride_ ^[Literally "According to the height of his nose"] _the_ wicked will not seek _God_.
There is no God in any of his thoughts.

###### v5
His ways ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] endure at all times. ^[Hebrew "time"]
Your judgments are aloof from him.
_As for_ all his enemies, he scoffs at them.

###### v6
He says in his heart, "I shall not be moved
_throughout all generations_, ^[Literally "for a generation and a generation"] _during_ which _I will have_ no trouble."

###### v7
His mouth is filled with cursing,
with deceits and oppression;
under his tongue are trouble and evil.

###### v8
He sits in ambush in villages;
in the hiding places he kills _the_ innocent.
His eyes _lurk_ ^[Literally "lie hid"] for _the_ helpless.

###### v9
He lies in ambush _secretly,_ ^[Literally "in the secret places"] like a lion in a thicket.
He lies in ambush to seize _the_ poor;
he seizes _the_ poor by catching him in his net.

###### v10
He is crushed; ^[Or "and he _the wicked_ stoops"] he is bowed down; ^[Or "he _the wicked_ crouches"]
so ^[Or "and"] the helpless host ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] falls by his _might_. ^[Literally "mighty ones"]

###### v11
He says in his heart, "God has forgotten.
He has hidden his face.
He never sees."

###### v12
Rise up, O Yahweh;
O God, lift up your hand.
Do not forget _the_ afflicted.

###### v13
Why does the wicked treat God with contempt?
He says in his heart, "You will not call _me_ to account."

###### v14
_But_ you have seen; indeed you have noted trouble and grief
to take _it_ into your hand.
The helpless abandons _himself_ upon you;
you have been _the_ helper _for the_ orphan.

###### v15
Break _the_ arm of _the_ wicked,
and _as for the_ evil _man_--
seek out his wickedness _until_ you find none.

###### v16
Yahweh _is_ king forever and ever;
the nations have perished from his land.

###### v17
_The_ longing of _the_ afflicted you have heard, O Yahweh.
You will make their heart secure. You will _listen attentively_ ^[Literally "cause your ear to hear"]

###### v18
to render judgment _for the_ fatherless and _the_ oppressed
_so that_ a _mere_ mortal from the earth will no longer cause terror.