---
aliases:
  - Psalms 148
---

[[Ps-147|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-149|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Praise Yah. ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]
Praise Yahweh from the heavens;
praise him in the heights.

###### v2
Praise him, all his angels;
praise him, all his hosts. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)]

###### v3
Praise him, sun and moon;
praise him, all stars of light.

###### v4
Praise him, _highest heavens_, ^[Literally "heaven_s_ of the heavens"]
and waters above the heavens.

###### v5
Let them praise the name of Yahweh,
because he commanded and they were created.

###### v6
And he put them in place forever and ever,
_by_ a decree he gave that will not pass away.

###### v7
Praise Yahweh from the earth--
great sea creatures and all deeps,

###### v8
fire and hail, snow and cloud, ^[The meaning of "cloud" is uncertain]
stormy wind doing his bidding, ^[Hebrew "his word"]

###### v9
the mountains and all hills,
fruit trees and all cedars,

###### v10
beasts and all cattle, ^[That is, wild and domesticated]
creeping things and _flying birds_, ^[Literally "bird of wing"]

###### v11
kings of _the_ earth and all peoples,
princes and all judges of _the_ earth,

###### v12
young men and young women as well,
_the_ old _together_ with _the_ young--

###### v13
let them praise the name of Yahweh,
because his name alone _is_ is exalted.
His splendor _is_ above earth and heavens.

###### v14
And he has raised high a horn for his people,
praise for all his faithful--
for the children of Israel,
a people close to him.
Praise Yah. ^[Hebew _hallelujah_]