---
aliases:
  - Psalms 19
---

[[Ps-18|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-20|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The heavens _are_ telling the glory of God,
and the firmament proclaims the work of his hands.

###### v2
_Every day_ ^[Literally "day to day"] _they_ pour forth speech,
and _every night_ ^[Literally "night to night"] _they_ tell knowledge.

###### v3
There is no speech and there are no words;
their sound is inaudible.

###### v4
_Yet_ in all _the_ world their line ^[LXX "line"] goes out,
and their words to _the_ end of _the_ world.
In them ^[That is, the heavens] he has pitched a tent for the sun,

###### v5
and it _is_ like a bridegroom
who comes out of his bridal chamber.
It is glad like a strong man
to run _its_ course.

###### v6
Its rising _is_ from _one_ ^[Hebrew "the"] end of the heavens
and its circuit to the _other_ end ^[Hebrew "ends"] of them;
and nothing _is_ hidden from its heat.

###### v7
The law of Yahweh _is_ perfect, reviving life. ^[Or "soul"]
The testimony of Yahweh _is_ firm, making wise _the_ simple.

###### v8
The precepts of Yahweh _are_ right, making _the_ heart rejoice.
The command of Yahweh _is_ pure, enlightening _the_ eyes.

###### v9
The fear of Yahweh _is_ pure, enduring forever.
The ordinances of Yahweh _are_ true; they are righteous altogether,

###### v10
more desirable than gold, even much fine gold;
and sweeter than honey, even honey _in the_ comb.

###### v11
Moreover, your servant _is_ warned ^[Or "illumined"] by them;
in keeping them _is_ great reward.

###### v12
Who can perceive _his_ errors?
Acquit me from hidden _faults_.

###### v13
Also, keep back your servant from arrogant _sins_; ^[Usage elsewhere might suggest "arrogant people"]
let them not rule over me.
Then I shall be blameless,
and I shall be innocent of great transgression.

###### v14
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart
be acceptable in your presence,
O Yahweh, my rock and my redeemer.