---
aliases:
  - Psalms 116
---

[[Ps-115|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-117|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I love _him_, because Yahweh has heard
_the voice of my supplications_. ^[Literally "my voice, my supplications"]

###### v2
Because he has inclined his ear to me,
I will call _all my days_. ^[Literally "in my days"]

###### v3
_The_ ropes of death encircled me,
and the distresses of Sheol found me.
I found trouble and grief.

###### v4
Then I called on the name of Yahweh:
"O Yahweh, please save my life!"

###### v5
Gracious _is_ Yahweh and righteous,
and our God _is_ merciful.

###### v6
Yahweh watches over _the_ simple.
I was brought low, but he gave me victory.

###### v7
Return, O my soul, to your repose,
for Yahweh has dealt bountifully with you.

###### v8
For you have rescued me ^[Hebrew "my soul." If "soul" is accepted, then "death" means "_the place of_ death," that is, the netherworld.] from death,
my eyes ^[Hebrew "eye"] from tears, my feet from stumbling.

###### v9
I will walk before Yahweh
in the land ^[Hebrew "lands"] of the living.

###### v10
I believed when I spoke,
"I am afflicted greatly."

###### v11
I said in my haste,
"_Everyone_ ^[Literally "All _of_ the humankind"] _is_ a liar."

###### v12
What shall I give back to Yahweh
_for_ all his benefits to me?

###### v13
I will lift up _the_ cup of salvation
and proclaim the name of Yahweh.

###### v14
I will pay my vows _made_ to Yahweh
in the presence of all his people.

###### v15
Costly _in Yahweh's view_ ^[Literally "in the eyes of Yahweh"] _is_
the death of his faithful _ones_.

###### v16
Ah, Yahweh, I _am_ indeed your servant;
I am your servant, the child of your maidservant.
You have loosed my bonds.

###### v17
I will offer to you a sacrifice of thanksgiving,
and proclaim the name of Yahweh.

###### v18
I will pay my vows _made_ to Yahweh
in the presence of all his people,

###### v19
in the courts of the house ^[Or "temple"] of Yahweh,
in the midst of you, O Jerusalem.
Praise Yah! ^[Hebrew _hallelujah_]