---
aliases:
  - Psalms 140
---

[[Ps-139|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-141|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Rescue me, O Yahweh, from evil men. ^[The several uses of the singular "man" in this psalm are probably collective]
Preserve me from violent men,

###### v2
who plan evil _things_ in _their_ heart.
They stir up wars continually.

###### v3
They sharpen their tongue as _sharp as_ a snake's;
_the_ venom of a viper _is_ under their lips. _Selah_

###### v4
Protect me, O Yahweh, from _the_ hands of _the_ wicked.
Preserve me from violent men,
who have planned to _make me stumble_. ^[Literally "push my steps"]

###### v5
_The_ proud have hidden a trap for me, and cords.
They have spread out a net along _the_ _side_ ^[Literally "hand"] of _the_ path.
They have set snares for me. _Selah_

###### v6
I say to Yahweh, "You _are_ my God."
Listen, O Yahweh, to the voice of my supplications.

###### v7
O Yahweh, my Lord, the strength of my salvation,
you have covered my head in _the_ day of battle.

###### v8
Do not grant, O Yahweh, _the_ desires of _the_ wicked.
Do not allow _them_ to attain their ^[Hebrew "his"] plan, lest they be exalted. _Selah_

###### v9
_With respect to the_ head of _those who_ surround me,
may the harm of their lips cover them.

###### v10
Let burning coals fall on them;
let them be dropped into the fire,
into bottomless pits _from which_ they cannot rise.

###### v11
Do not let a _slanderer_ ^[Literally "man of tongue"] be established in the land;
as for _the_ man of violence, let evil hunt him quickly.

###### v12
I know ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] that Yahweh will maintain _the_ cause of _the_ afflicted,
_and_ justice for _the_ needy.

###### v13
Surely _the_ righteous will give thanks to your name;
_the_ upright will dwell in your presence.