---
aliases:
  - Psalms 118
---

[[Ps-117|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-119|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Give thanks to Yahweh for _he is_ good,
for his loyal love _is_ forever.

###### v2
Let Israel say,
"His loyal love _is_ forever."

###### v3
Let the house of Aaron say,
"His loyal love _is_ forever."

###### v4
Let _those who_ fear Yahweh say,
"His loyal love _is_ forever."

###### v5
Out of _my_ distress I called to Yah. ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]
Yah answered me, _setting me_ in a broad place.

###### v6
Yahweh _is_ for me; I do not fear.
What can _mere_ humans ^[Or "humankind"] do to me?

###### v7
Yahweh _is_ for me as my helper,
and _so_ I will look _in triumph_ on those who hate me.

###### v8
_It is_ better to take refuge in Yahweh
than to trust in humans. ^[Or "humankind"]

###### v9
_It is_ better to take refuge in Yahweh
than to trust princes.

###### v10
All nations surrounded me.
In the name of Yahweh I opposed them indeed.

###### v11
They surrounded me; yes, they surrounded me.
In the name of Yahweh I opposed them indeed.

###### v12
They surrounded me like bees;
they were extinguished like a fire of thorns.
In the name of Yahweh I opposed them indeed.

###### v13
You pushed me hard ^[Hebrew intensive "pushing, you pushed me"] to _make me_ fall,
but Yahweh helped me.

###### v14
Yah ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"] _is_ my strength and _my_ song, ^[Or "_my_ might"]
and he has become my salvation. ^[Or "victory"]

###### v15
_The_ sound of rejoicing and salvation ^[Or "victory"]
_is_ in _the_ tents of _the_ righteous;
the right hand of Yahweh _has_ done valiantly.

###### v16
The right hand of Yahweh _has_ exalted;
the right hand of Yahweh _has_ done valiantly.

###### v17
I will not die but live,
and tell of the works of Yah. ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]

###### v18
Yah has disciplined me severely,
but he did not consign ^[Hebrew "give"] me to death.

###### v19
Open to me _the_ gates of righteousness,
that I may enter through them
_and_ give thanks to Yah. ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]

###### v20
This _is_ the gate of Yahweh,
through _which the_ righteous will enter.

###### v21
I will give thanks _to_ you for you have answered me,
and you have become my salvation. ^[Or "victory"]

###### v22
_The_ stone the builders rejected
has become _the_ chief cornerstone.

###### v23
This is from Yahweh;
it is wonderful in our eyes.

###### v24
This _is_ the day Yahweh has worked; ^[Or "made"]
let us rejoice and be glad in him. ^[Or "in it"]

###### v25
O Yahweh, please save;
O Yahweh, please grant success.

###### v26
Blessed _is_ he who comes in the name of Yahweh.
We bless you ^[Hebrew plural] from the house ^[Or "temple"] of Yahweh.

###### v27
Yahweh is God, and he has given us light. ^[Or "made _his_ light to shine upon _to_ us"]
Bind _the_ festal sacrifice ^[Or "festal procession"] with cords ^[Or "branches"]
to the horns ^[Or "_and lead up_ to the horns"] of the altar.

###### v28
You _are_ my God, and I will give thanks to you.
_You are_ my God; I will exalt you.

###### v29
Give thanks to Yahweh for _he is_ good,
for his loyal love _is_ forever.