---
aliases:
  - Psalms 107
---

[[Ps-106|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-108|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Give thanks to Yahweh, for _he is_ good,
for his loyal love _is_ forever.

###### v2
Let the redeemed of Yahweh declare ^[Hebrew "say"] _it_,
_those_ whom he has redeemed from _the_ hand of _the_ enemy

###### v3
and gathered from _the_ lands,
from east and from west, from north and from south. ^[Hebrew "sea" (_yam_), which usually means "west" in a listing of directions. The word "south" is expected (Hebrew _yamin_). Either the MT was corrupted early (along with [[Isa-49#v12|Isa 49:12;]] the LXX reads "sea" in both) or it looks to the bodies of waters to the south (see also the Targum)]

###### v4
They wandered in the wilderness, in a desert.
They could find no way ^[The MT reads "way" with the previous line.] to a city to inhabit.

###### v5
Hungry and thirsty,
their soul grew faint within them.

###### v6
Then they cried out to Yahweh in their trouble.
He delivered them from their distresses

###### v7
and led them by a straight way
to get to a city to inhabit.

###### v8
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love,
and his wonderful deeds for _the_ children of humankind,

###### v9
for he satisfies _the_ longing soul, ^[Thirst is perhaps in view]
and _the_ hungry soul he fills with good.

###### v10
_Those who_ sat in darkness and gloom,
prisoners of misery and iron--

###### v11
because they rebelled against the words of God
and spurned the counsel of the Most High,

###### v12
he therefore humbled their heart with trouble.
They stumbled and there was no helper.

###### v13
Then they called to Yahweh for help in their trouble;
he saved them from their distresses.

###### v14
He brought them out of darkness and gloom,
and tore off their bonds.

###### v15
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love
and his wonderful deeds for _the_ children of humankind,

###### v16
for he shatters _the_ doors of bronze,
and cuts through _the_ bars of iron.

###### v17
Fools, because of their rebellious way
and their iniquities, were afflicted.

###### v18
Their soul abhorred all food,
and they approached _the_ gates of death.

###### v19
Then they called to Yahweh for help in their trouble.
He saved them from their distresses.

###### v20
He sent his word and healed them,
and he delivered _them_ from their pits. ^[This word is only found elsewhere in [[Lam-04#v20|Lam 4:20]] with the sense of "traps"]

###### v21
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love,
and his wonderful deeds for _the_ children of humankind,

###### v22
and let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving,
and tell of his works with rejoicing.

###### v23
_Those who_ went down to the sea into ships,
doing business on _the_ _high seas_, ^[Literally "many waters"]

###### v24
they saw the works of Yahweh,
and his wonderful deeds in _the_ deep.

###### v25
For he spoke and raised up a stormy wind,
and it whipped up its waves.

###### v26
They rose to the heavens; they plunged to _the_ depths.
Their soul melted in their calamity.

###### v27
They reeled and staggered like a drunkard,
and _they were at their wits' end_. ^[Literally "all their wisdom was swallowed up"]

###### v28
Then they cried out to Yahweh in their trouble,
and he brought them out of their distresses.

###### v29
He made _the_ storm be still
and their waves became calm.

###### v30
Then they were glad because they grew silent,
so he guided them to their desired harbor.

###### v31
Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love
and his wonderful deeds for _the_ children of humankind,

###### v32
and let them exalt him in _the_ congregation of _the_ people,
and praise him in _the_ assembly of _the_ elders.

###### v33
He turns rivers into a wilderness
and springs of water into thirsty ground,

###### v34
a fruitful land into a salty place,
because of the evil of its inhabitants.

###### v35
He turns a wilderness into a pool of water
and a dry land into springs of water.

###### v36
And he settles _the_ hungry there,
so that they may establish a city to inhabit,

###### v37
and sow fields and plant vineyards,
_that they may yield fruit at harvest_. ^[Hebrew "and make a fruit of produce"]

###### v38
And he blesses them and they multiply greatly,
and he does not let their cattle become few.

###### v39
When they become few and they are bent down
from _the_ oppression of calamity and grief,

###### v40
_he_ pours contempt on princes
and causes them to wander in a trackless waste.

###### v41
But he protects ^[The sense is that of making something inaccessibly high, like a fortress] _the_ needy from misery,
and he makes _their_ families like a flock.

###### v42
_The_ upright see _it_ and are glad,
and all wickedness shuts its mouth.

###### v43
Whoever _is_ wise, then let him observe these _things_,
and let them consider Yahweh's acts of loyal love.