---
aliases:
  - Psalms 109
---

[[Ps-108|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-110|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O God of my praise, do not keep silent,

###### v2
for _wicked and deceitful mouths_ ^[Literally "a wicked mouth and a deceitful mouth"]
have opened against me.
They speak to me with a lying tongue.

###### v3
They also surround me with words of hate,
and fight me without cause.

###### v4
In return for my love they accuse me,
though I _am in_ prayer. ^[Or perhaps "I _have_ a plea _of innocence_"]

###### v5
So they inflicted evil against me in return for good
and hatred in return for my love.

###### v6
Appoint over him a wicked _man_,
and let an accuser stand at his right _hand_.

###### v7
When he is judged, let him come out guilty,
and let his prayer ^[Or perhaps "plea _of innocence_"] become as sin.

###### v8
Let his days be few;
let another take his office.

###### v9
Let his children be orphans,
and his wife a widow,

###### v10
and let his children wander aimlessly and beg,
and let them plead from their ruins.

###### v11
Let _the_ creditor seize all that _is_ his,
and let strangers plunder his property.

###### v12
Let there be none _who_ extend to him loyal love,
nor any who pities his orphans.

###### v13
Let his descendants ^[Or "posterity"; Hebrew is singular] be cut off.
Let their name be blotted out in _the_ next generation.

###### v14
Let the iniquity of his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] be remembered before Yahweh,
and let the sin of his mother not be blotted out.

###### v15
Let them be before Yahweh continually,
that he may cut off their ^[That is, the family] memory from _the_ earth,

###### v16
because he did not remember to show loyal love,
but he pursued anyone, ^[Hebrew "a man"] poor or needy
or brokenhearted, to slay _them_.

###### v17
Because he loved cursing, let it come _upon_ him.
Because he did not delight in blessing,
let it be far from him.

###### v18
Because he wore a curse as his robe,
let it enter _his body_ ^[Literally "his inward part"] like water,
and into his bones like oil.

###### v19
May it be for him like a garment _in which_ he wraps,
and a belt _he continually wears_. ^[Literally "continually he girds it"]

###### v20
Let this _be_ the punishment for my accusers from Yahweh,
even those who speak evil against my life.

###### v21
But you, O Yahweh my Lord,
deal with me for your name's sake.
Because your loyal love _is_ good, deliver me,

###### v22
for I _am_ poor and needy,
and my heart is wounded within me.

###### v23
Like a lengthening shadow I am passing away;
I am shaken off like a locust.

###### v24
My knees _buckle_ ^[Literally "stumble"] from fasting,
and my body grows lean without fat.

###### v25
And _so_ I am a disgrace to them;
_when_ they see me, they shake their heads. ^[Hebrew "head"]

###### v26
Help me, O Yahweh my God;
save me according to your loyal love,

###### v27
that they may know that this _is_ your hand,
_that_ you, O Yahweh, you have done it.

###### v28
Let them curse, but you bless.
_When_ they arise, let them be put to shame,
that your servant may be glad.

###### v29
Let my accusers put on disgrace,
and let them cover _themselves_ with their shame as with a robe.

###### v30
I will give thanks to Yahweh exceedingly with my mouth,
and in _the_ midst of many I will praise him,

###### v31
for he stands at _the_ right _hand_ of _the_ needy,
to save _him_ from those judging his life. ^[Or "soul"]