---
aliases:
  - Psalms 27
---

[[Ps-26|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-28|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Yahweh _is_ my light and my salvation;
whom shall I fear?
Yahweh _is_ the refuge of my life;
of whom shall I be afraid?

###### v2
When evildoers drew near against me to eat my flesh--
my adversaries and my enemies _who drew near_ to me--
they themselves stumbled and fell.

###### v3
Though an army encamp against me,
my heart will not fear.
Though war arise against me,
_even_ in this I _will_ remain confident.

###### v4
One _thing_ I have asked from Yahweh;
it I will seek:
_that_ I may dwell in the house ^[Or "temple"] of Yahweh all the days of my life,
to behold the beauty of Yahweh,
and to consider ^[Or "inquire in"] his temple.

###### v5
Because he will hide me in his shelter in _the_ day of trouble.
He will conceal me in the hiding place of his tent.
He will set me high upon a rock.

###### v6
And now my head will be high over my enemies round about me.
And I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy.
I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to Yahweh.

###### v7
Hear, O Yahweh, my voice _when_ I call,
and be gracious to me and answer me.

###### v8
On your behalf my heart says, "Seek my face."
Your face, O Yahweh, I do seek.

###### v9
Do not hide your face from me;
do not turn your servant away in anger.
You have been my help; do not abandon nor forsake me,
O God of my salvation.

###### v10
If my father or my mother forsake me,
then Yahweh will receive me.

###### v11
Teach me, O Yahweh, your way,
and lead me on a level path because of my enemies.

###### v12
Do not give me over to the desire of my enemies,
because false witnesses have arisen against me,
and _each_ breathing out violence. ^[Or "and _each_ a witness of violence"]

###### v13
Surely ^[Hebrew text is uncertain] I believe _that I will_ see the goodness of Yahweh
in _the_ land of _the_ living.

###### v14
Wait for Yahweh.
Be strong and let your heart show strength,
and wait for Yahweh.