---
aliases:
  - Psalms 25
---

[[Ps-24|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-26|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
To you, O Yahweh, I lift up my soul.

###### v2
O my God, I trust you; let me not be put to shame.
Do not let my enemies exult over me.

###### v3
Indeed, none who wait for you should be put to shame.
Those who betray without cause should be put to shame.

###### v4
Make me know your ways, O Yahweh.
Teach me your paths.

###### v5
Cause me to walk in your truth and teach me,
because you _are_ the God of my salvation.
I await you _all day long_. ^[Literally "all of the day"]

###### v6
Remember your compassion, O Yahweh,
and your acts of loyal love,
because they _are_ from of old.

###### v7
Do not remember
the sins of my youth or my transgressions.
According to your loyal love remember me _if_ you _will_,
for the sake of your goodness, O Yahweh.

###### v8
Good and right _is_ Yahweh;
therefore he instructs sinners in the way.

###### v9
He causes _the_ humble to walk in justice,
and teaches _the_ humble his way.

###### v10
All the paths of Yahweh _are_ loyal love and faithfulness
for those who keep his covenant and statutes. ^[Or "covenant statutes"]

###### v11
Also, for the sake of your name, O Yahweh,
forgive my sin, because it _is_ great.

###### v12
Who _is_ the man fearing Yahweh?
He will instruct him in _the_ way he should choose.

###### v13
His soul will lodge in prosperity,
and his offspring will possess _the_ land.

###### v14
Intimate fellowship with Yahweh _is_ for those who fear him,
and _he_ makes known his covenant to them.

###### v15
My eyes _are_ continually toward Yahweh,
because he will take my feet from _the_ net.

###### v16
Turn to me and have mercy on me
because I _am_ lonely and afflicted.

###### v17
Remove the troubles of my heart;
bring me out from my distresses.

###### v18
Consider my affliction and trouble,
and forgive ^[Or "take away"] all my sins.

###### v19
Consider that my enemies are many,
and they hate me _with_ violent hatred.

###### v20
Protect my life and deliver me.
Let me not be put to shame, because I take shelter in you.

###### v21
Let integrity and uprightness preserve me,
because I wait for you.

###### v22
O God, redeem Israel
from all its troubles.