---
aliases:
  - Psalms 22
---

[[Ps-21|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-23|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
My God, my God why have you forsaken me?
_Why are you_ far from helping me, _far from_ the words of my groaning?

###### v2
O my God, I call by day and you do not answer,
and _by_ night but I have no rest. ^[Or "I am not silent"]

###### v3
Yet you _are_ holy,
enthroned on the praises of Israel.

###### v4
Our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] trusted you;
they trusted and you delivered them.

###### v5
They cried to you and were saved;
they trusted you and were not ashamed.

###### v6
But I _am_ a worm and not a man,
scorned by humankind and despised by people.

###### v7
All _who_ see me mock me.
They open wide _their_ lips;
they shake _the_ head, _saying_:

###### v8
"_He trusts Yahweh_. ^[Literally "Commit to Yahweh"] Let him rescue him.
Let him deliver him because he delights in him."

###### v9
Yet _you_ took me from _the_ belly;
you made me trust _while_ on my mother's breasts.

###### v10
On you I was cast from _the_ womb.
From my mother's belly you _have been_ my God.

###### v11
Do not be far from me
because trouble _is_ near;
because there is no helper.

###### v12
Many bulls have encircled me;
mighty _bulls_ of Bashan have surrounded me.

###### v13
They open their mouth against me
_like_ a lion tearing and roaring.

###### v14
I am poured out like water,
and all my bones are out of joint.
My heart is like wax;
it is melted _within me_. ^[Literally "in the midst of my intestines"]

###### v15
My strength is dry like a potsherd,
and my tongue is sticking _to_ my jaws;
and you have placed me in _the_ dust of death.

###### v16
Because dogs have surrounded me;
a gang of evildoers has encircled me.
Like the lion ^[Or "they gouge out" or "they bind." Not the same word for "lion" found in vv. [[Ps-22#v14|14]](13), 22(21). The Hebrew text presents such problems that any interpretation must be lightly held.] _they are at_ my hands and my feet.

###### v17
I can count all my bones;
they gaze, they look at me.

###### v18
They divide my garments among them,
and for my clothing they cast lots. ^[Hebrew "lot"]

###### v19
But you, O Yahweh, do not remain distant.
O my help, hasten to help me.

###### v20
Rescue my life from _the_ sword,
my only _life_ from _the_ power of _the_ dogs. ^[Hebrew "dog"]

###### v21
Save me from _the_ mouth of _the_ lion,
and from _the_ horns of _the_ wild oxen answer me.

###### v22
I will tell your name to my brothers;
inside _the_ assembly I will praise you.

###### v23
You who revere Yahweh, praise him!
Glorify him, all _you_ seed of Jacob,
and be in awe of him, all _you_ seed of Israel,

###### v24
because he has not despised nor abhorred _the_ affliction of _the_ afflicted,
and has not hid his face from him;
but he listened to him when he cried for help.

###### v25
From you _is_ my praise.
In _the_ great assembly,
I will pay my vows before those who revere him.

###### v26
_The_ afflicted will eat and will be satisfied.
Those who seek him will praise Yahweh.
May your ^[Plural] heart live forever.

###### v27
All _the_ ends of _the_ earth
will remember and turn to Yahweh.
All _the_ families of _the_ nations
will worship before you.

###### v28
Because the kingship belongs to Yahweh,
and _he_ rules over the nations.

###### v29
All _the_ _healthy ones_ ^[Or "prosperous"; Literally "fat ones"] of _the_ earth will eat and worship.
Before him all _of_ those descending _into the_ dust will kneel,
even he _who_ cannot keep his soul alive.

###### v30
Descendants ^[Hebrew "Descendant"] will serve him.
Regarding the Lord, it will be told to the _next_ generation.

###### v31
They will come and tell his saving ^[Or "righteousness"] _deeds_
to a people _yet_ to be born, that he has done _it_.