---
aliases:
  - Psalms 21
---

[[Ps-20|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-22|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, _the_ king will rejoice in your strength,
and how greatly he will delight in your help. ^[Or "victory"]

###### v2
You have given him the desire of his heart,
and have not withheld the request of his lips. _Selah_

###### v3
For you meet him _with_ blessings of good _things_.
You set on his head a crown of fine gold.

###### v4
He asked life from you; you gave _it_ to him--
length of days forever and ever.

###### v5
His honor _is_ great because of your help. ^[Or "victory"]
Splendor and majesty you have bestowed upon him.

###### v6
For you set _on_ him blessings forever.
You make him glad with _the_ joy _of_ your presence.

###### v7
Because the king trusts Yahweh,
and through the steadfast love ^[Or "loyal love"] of the Most High
he shall not be moved.

###### v8
Your hand will find all your enemies;
your right hand will find those who hate you.

###### v9
You will make them like your fiery furnace
at the time of your appearance.
Yahweh will swallow them in his wrath
and fire will consume them.

###### v10
You will destroy their _offspring_ ^[Literally "fruit"] from _the_ earth,
and their _descendants_ ^[Literally "seed"] from among _the_ children of humankind.

###### v11
Though they have _plotted_ ^[Literally "spread out"] evil against you,
_though_ they have planned a scheme, they will not prevail.

###### v12
For you will _turn them to flight_; ^[Literally "make them a shoulder"]
you will aim _arrows_ on your bowstrings at their faces.

###### v13
Be exalted, O Yahweh, in your strength,
and we sing and praise your power.