---
aliases:
  - Psalms 33
---

[[Ps-32|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-34|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Exult in Yahweh, O _you_ righteous,
_for_ praise _is_ fitting for the upright.

###### v2
Give thanks to Yahweh with _the_ lyre;
with a harp of ten strings play to him.

###### v3
Sing to him a new song;
play skillfully with jubilant shout.

###### v4
For the word of Yahweh _is_ upright,
and all his work _is done_ in faithfulness.

###### v5
_He_ loves righteousness and justice.
The earth is full of the loyal love of Yahweh.

###### v6
By the word of Yahweh _the_ heavens were made,
and by the breath of his mouth all their host.

###### v7
_He_ gathered the waters of the sea like a heap.
_He_ put _the_ deeps in storehouses.

###### v8
Let all the earth fear Yahweh.
Let all _the_ inhabitants of _the_ world stand in awe of him.

###### v9
For _he himself spoke_ ^[Literally "he, he spoke"] and it came to pass.
_He himself commanded_ ^[Literally "He, he commanded"] and it stood firm.

###### v10
Yahweh brings to nothing ^[Or "breaks"] _the_ plan of nations;
he frustrates ^[Or "nullifies"] _the_ intents of peoples.

###### v11
The plan of Yahweh stands firm forever,
the intents of his heart _from one generation to the next_. ^[Literally "to a generation and a generation"]

###### v12
Blessed _is_ the nation whose God _is_ Yahweh,
the people he has chosen for his inheritance.

###### v13
From heaven Yahweh looks;
he sees all the children of humankind.

###### v14
From his dwelling place ^[Or "the place where he sits enthroned"] he gazes
on all the inhabitants of the earth,

###### v15
he who fashions altogether their heart,
he who understands all their works.

###### v16
The king _is_ not saved by _the_ greatness of an army.
The warrior is not delivered by _the_ greatness of strength.

###### v17
The horse _is_ a false hope for victory,
nor can it save by the greatness of its power.

###### v18
Behold, the eye of Yahweh _is_ on those who fear him,
on those who hope ^[Or "wait expectantly"] for his loyal love

###### v19
to deliver their soul from death
and to keep them alive in famine.

###### v20
Our soul waits for Yahweh;
he _is_ our help and our shield.

###### v21
For in him our heart rejoices
because in his holy name we trust.

###### v22
Let your loyal love, O Yahweh, be upon us,
_even as_ ^[Literally "as which"] we hope in you.