---
aliases:
  - Psalms 39
---

[[Ps-38|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-40|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I said, "I will guard my ways
_that I may not sin_ ^[Literally "from sinning"] with my tongue.
I will keep a muzzle over my mouth
as long as _the_ wicked _are_ before me."

###### v2
I was mute _with_ silence. I was silent _even_ from _saying_ good _things_,
and my pain was stirred up.

###### v3
My heart grew hot inside me;
in my sighing a fire burned.
_Then_ I spoke with my tongue,

###### v4
"Let me know, O Yahweh, my end,
and what is the measure of my days.
Let me know how transient I _am_."

###### v5
Look, you have made my days _mere_ handbreadths,
and my lifespan as nothing next to you.
Surely every person standing firm _is_ complete vanity. _Selah_

###### v6
Surely a man walks about as a _mere_ _shadow_; ^[Literally "image"]
surely in vain they bustle about.
He heaps up _possessions_ but does not know who _will_ gather them _in_.

###### v7
And now, O Lord, for what do I wait?
My hope is for you.

###### v8
From all my transgressions deliver me;
do not make me _the_ taunt of _the_ fool.

###### v9
I am mute. I do not open my mouth,
for you, yourself, have done _it_.

###### v10
Remove from me your affliction.
By the opposition of your hand I perish.

###### v11
_When_ with rebukes you chastise a man for sin,
you ^[Hebrew "and/then you"] _consume_ ^[Literally "cause to melt"] like a moth his delightful _things_.
Surely everyone _is_ a _mere_ vapor. ^[The word translated "vanity" in vv. [[Ps-39#v6|6]], 7] _Selah_

###### v12
Hear my prayer, O Yahweh, and listen _to_ my cry for help;
do not be deaf to my tears.
For I _am_ an alien ^[Or "stranger"] with you,
a sojourner like all my ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v13
Look _away_ from me that I may be cheerful,
before I depart and I am no more.