---
aliases:
  - Psalms 35
---

[[Ps-34|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-36|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Contend, O Yahweh, with my contenders;
fight _those who_ fight me.

###### v2
Grasp buckler and shield
and rise to my aid.

###### v3
And draw _the_ spear and javelin to meet _those who_ pursue me.
Say to my soul, "I _am_ your salvation."

###### v4
Let those who seek my life be shamed and humiliated.
Let those who plot calamity against me be repulsed and ashamed.

###### v5
Let them be like chaff before _the_ wind,
with the angel of Yahweh _driving them_. ^[Literally "pushing"]

###### v6
Let their way be dark and slippery,
with the angel of Yahweh pursuing them.

###### v7
For without cause they secretly hide the pit with their net for me;
without cause they dug _it_ for my life.

###### v8
Let _unforeseen ruin_ ^[Literally "ruin he does not know"] come on him,
and his net that he hid, let it catch him.
Let him fall into it in ruin.

###### v9
Then my soul will rejoice in Yahweh;
it will rejoice in his salvation.

###### v10
All of my bones shall say, "O Yahweh, who _is_ like you,
who delivers _the_ poor from _one_ stronger than he
and _the_ poor and needy from _the one who_ robs him?"

###### v11
Violent witnesses rise up;
they ask me _concerning_ what I do not know.

###### v12
They repay me evil in place of good.
_It is_ bereavement to my soul.

###### v13
But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing _was_ sackcloth.
I weakened my soul with fasting,
and my prayer _returned to me unanswered_. ^[Literally "upon my lap it will return"]

###### v14
I _behaved_ ^[Literally "walked about"] as _though he were_ a friend _or_ as a brother to me.
As one lamenting a mother, I was bowed down _in_ mourning.

###### v15
But at my stumbling they rejoiced and gathered together;
smiters whom I did not know gathered against me.
They tore and did not cease.

###### v16
Among _the_ ungodly of the mockers at feasts, ^[With a slight change the Hebrew might read, "The ungodly boldly mocked"]
_they_ gnashed at me with their teeth.

###### v17
My Lord, how long will you watch?
Restore my life from their ravages, ^[Or "roaring"]
my only _life_ from _the_ young lions.

###### v18
I will give thanks _to_ you in _the_ great assembly;
among _the_ mighty people I will praise you.

###### v19
Let not those who _are_ wrongfully my enemies ^[Or "those who oppose me _with_ falsehood"] rejoice over me.
_Nor let_ those who hate me without cause wink _the_ eye.

###### v20
For they do not speak peace,
but against _the_ quiet _ones_ of _the_ land
they plan deceitful words.

###### v21
They also made wide their mouths ^[Hebrew "mouth"] against me.
They said, "Aha! Aha!
Our eyes have seen _it_."

###### v22
You have seen, O Yahweh. Do not be deaf.
O Lord, do not be far from me.

###### v23
Wake up and rouse yourself for my right,
for my cause, O my God and my Lord.

###### v24
Vindicate me according to your righteousness,
O Yahweh my God,
and do not let them rejoice over me.

###### v25
Do not let them say in their hearts, ^[Hebrew "heart"] "Aha, our desire."
Let them not say, "We have swallowed him up."

###### v26
Let them be shamed and abashed altogether,
who rejoice at my misfortune.
Let them put on shame and insult,
who magnify themselves against me.

###### v27
Let them shout for joy and be glad,
who delight in my vindication;
and let them say continually, "Yahweh is great,
who delights in the welfare of his servant."

###### v28
Then my tongue will proclaim your righteousness,
_and_ your praise all day.