---
aliases:
  - Psalms 36
---

[[Ps-35|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-37|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
An oracle: the wicked has rebellion
in the midst of his ^[Reading with a few Hebrew manuscripts and some versions; MT reads "my"] heart.
There is no fear of God before his eyes.

###### v2
For he flatters himself in his eyes,
hating to detect his iniquity. ^[Or "when finding his iniquity and when hating"]

###### v3
The words of his mouth _are_ wickedness and deceit.
He has ceased to have insight _and_ to do good.

###### v4
He plans sin on his bed.
He puts himself on a way _that is_ not good.
He does not reject evil.

###### v5
O Yahweh, your loyal love _extends_ into _the_ heavens,
your faithfulness unto _the_ clouds.

###### v6
Your righteousness _is_ _like the mighty mountains_, ^[Literally "like the mountains of God"]
your judgments _like the_ great deep.
You save man and beast, O Yahweh.

###### v7
How precious _is_ your loyal love, O God,
and the children of humankind
take refuge in the shadow of your wings.

###### v8
They are refreshed with the _fullness_ ^[Literally "fatness"] of your house, ^[Or "temple"]
and you give them drink _from_ the river of your delights.

###### v9
For with you is _the_ fountain of life;
in your light we see light.

###### v10
Prolong your loyal love to those who know you,
and your righteousness to _the_ upright of heart.

###### v11
Do not let a foot of pride come against me,
nor let a wicked hand make me to wander homeless.

###### v12
There doers of evil have fallen;
they are thrust down and not able to rise.