---
aliases:
  - Psalms 31
---

[[Ps-30|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-32|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In you, O Yahweh, I have taken refuge.
Let me not be put to shame ever.
Deliver me by your righteousness.

###### v2
Incline your ear to me.
Quickly deliver me.
Become my rock of refuge,
_a fortified keep_ ^[Literally "a house of strongholds"] to save me.

###### v3
For you _are_ my rock and my fortress.
So, for the sake of your name,
lead me and guide me.

###### v4
Bring me out of _the_ net that they have secretly set for me,
for you _are_ my refuge.

###### v5
Into your hand I commit my spirit.
You have redeemed me, O Yahweh, faithful God. ^[Or "God of truth"]

###### v6
I hate those devoted to useless idols,
but I trust Yahweh.

###### v7
I will exult and rejoice in your loyal love.
Because you have seen my misery,
you know the distresses of my life. ^[Or "soul"]

###### v8
And you have not delivered me
into _the_ hand of _the_ enemy.
You have set my feet in a broad place.

###### v9
Be gracious _to_ me, O Yahweh,
because I have distress.
My eye wastes away because of vexation,
_along with_ my soul and my _body_. ^[Literally "belly"]

###### v10
For my life is at an end with sorrow,
and my years with sighing.
My strength stumbles because of my iniquity,
and my bones waste away.

###### v11
Because of all my adversaries I have become a disgrace,
especially to my neighbors,
and a dread to my acquaintances.
_Those who_ see me in the street flee from me.

###### v12
I have become forgotten like _one_ dead, out of _mind_. ^[Literally "heart"]
I am like a destroyed vessel.

###### v13
For I hear _the_ rumor of many,
"Terror on every side!"
When conspiring together against me,
they have plotted to take my life.

###### v14
But as for me, I trust you, O Yahweh.
I say, "You _are_ my God."

###### v15
My times ^[Or "destiny"] _are_ in your hand.
Deliver me from the hand of my enemies
and from _those who_ pursue me.

###### v16
Shine your face upon your servant.
Save me by your loyal love.

###### v17
O Yahweh, let me not be put to shame, for I call on you.
Let the wicked be put to shame.
Let them _go_ silently ^[Or "let them _with_ wailing _enter_"] to Sheol.

###### v18
Let lying lips be dumb,
that speak against _the_ righteous ^[Or "the innocent one"] unrestrained
with arrogance and contempt.

###### v19
How abundant _is_ your goodness
that you have stored up for _those who_ fear you,
that you perform for those who take refuge in you
before _the_ children of humankind.

###### v20
You will hide them in the protection of your presence
from _the_ plots of man.
You will hide them in a shelter from _the_ strife of tongues.

###### v21
Blessed _is_ Yahweh,
because he has worked marvelously his loyal love to me
in a besieged city.

###### v22
As for me, I said in my alarm,
"I am cut off from before your eyes."
However you heard the voice of my supplications
when I cried to you for help.

###### v23
Love Yahweh, all you his faithful ones.
Yahweh preserves _the_ faithful
but repays abundantly _the_ one who acts arrogantly.

###### v24
Be strong and let your ^[Plural] heart show strength,
all _you_ who wait for Yahweh.