---
aliases:
  - Psalms 30
---

[[Ps-29|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-31|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I will exalt you, O Yahweh,
because you have drawn me up,
and have not made my enemies rejoice over me.

###### v2
O Yahweh, my God,
I cried for help to you,
and you healed me.

###### v3
O Yahweh, you have brought my life up from Sheol.
You preserved me alive
from among those going down  ^[According to the _Kethib_; the reading tradition (_Qere_) reads "so I would not go down"] to _the_ pit.

###### v4
Sing praises to Yahweh, you his faithful ones,
and give thanks _to his holy fame_. ^[Literally "to the fame of his holiness"]

###### v5
For _there is_ a moment in his anger;
_there is_ a lifetime in his favor.
Weeping lodges for the evening,
but in the morning _comes_ rejoicing.

###### v6
But as for me, I had said in my prosperity,
"I shall not be moved ever."

###### v7
O Yahweh, by your favor
you caused my strong mountain to stand.
You hid your face. I was bewildered.

###### v8
To you, O Yahweh, I called,
and to the Lord I pleaded for grace _saying_,

###### v9
"What gain _is there_ in my _death_, ^[Literally "blood"]
in my going down into _the_ pit?
Will _the_ dust praise you?
Will it tell of your faithfulness?

###### v10
"O Yahweh, hear and be gracious to me.
O Yahweh, be my helper."

###### v11
You have turned my wailing into my dancing.
You have removed my sackcloth
and clothed me _with_ joy

###### v12
so that _I_ ^[Literally "my glory"] may sing praises to you
and not be quiet.
O Yahweh, my God,
I will give thanks to you forever.