---
aliases:
  - Psalms 38
---

[[Ps-37|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-39|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, do not rebuke me in your anger
or chastise me in your wrath.

###### v2
For your arrows have sunk into me,
and your hand has pressed down on me.

###### v3
There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation.
There is no health in my bones because of my sin.

###### v4
For my iniquities have passed over my head;
like a heavy burden they are too heavy for me.

###### v5
My wounds start to stink; they rot
because of my foolishness.

###### v6
I am bowed down; I am bent over greatly.
All the day I go about mourning.

###### v7
For my loins are full _of_ burning,
and there is no soundness in my flesh.

###### v8
I am faint and crushed greatly;
I groan because of the roaring of my heart.

###### v9
O Lord, all my longing is before you,
and my sighing is not hidden from you.

###### v10
My heart throbs violently, my strength leaves me;
and the light of my eyes, that also is not with me.

###### v11
My friends and companions stand aloof from my affliction,
and my relatives stand afar off.

###### v12
Those who seek my life lay snares as well,
and those intent on my harm speak threats.
They also plot deceit all day.

###### v13
But as for me, like _the_ deaf I cannot hear,
and _I am_ like _the_ mute _who_ cannot open his mouth.

###### v14
And _so_ I am like a man who hears not,
and in whose mouth there are no retorts.

###### v15
Rather for you I wait, O Yahweh.
You will answer, O Lord my God.

###### v16
For I said, "_Help,_ lest they rejoice over me,
_lest_ they boast against me when my foot slips."

###### v17
For I _am_ ready to stumble,
and my pain _is_ before me continually.

###### v18
For my iniquity I confess;
I am anxious because of my sin.

###### v19
And my enemies without cause ^[Or "vigorous"] are numerous,
and those who hate me wrongfully ^[Or "those who hate me _with_ falsehood"] are many.

###### v20
And those who repay evil in return for good
accuse me in return for my pursuing good.

###### v21
Do not forsake me, O Yahweh.
O my God, do not be far from me.

###### v22
Hurry to help me,
O Lord, my salvation.