---
aliases:
  - Psalms 34
---

[[Ps-33|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-35|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I will bless Yahweh at all times;
his praise _shall be_ in my mouth continually.

###### v2
My soul makes its boast in Yahweh;
let the humble hear and be glad.

###### v3
Magnify Yahweh with me,
and let us exalt his name together.

###### v4
I sought Yahweh and he answered me,
and from all my terrors he delivered me.

###### v5
They looked to him and were radiant,
and their faces shall not be ashamed. ^[Or "and let not their faces be ashamed"]

###### v6
This poor _man_ called and Yahweh heard,
and saved him from all his troubles.

###### v7
The angel of Yahweh encamps
around _those who_ fear him,
and he rescues them.

###### v8
Taste and see that Yahweh _is_ good;
blessed _is_ the man _who_ takes refuge in him.

###### v9
Fear Yahweh, _you_ his saints, ^[Or "holy ones"]
for there is no lack for _those who_ fear him.

###### v10
_The_ young lions are in want and suffer hunger,
but those who seek Yahweh will not lack for any good thing.

###### v11
Come, _you_ children, listen to me;
I will teach you the fear of Yahweh.

###### v12
Who _is_ the man who desires life,
who loves _many_ days in order to see good?

###### v13
Keep your tongue from evil
and your lips from speaking deceit.

###### v14
Turn from evil and do good.
Seek peace and pursue it.

###### v15
The eyes of Yahweh _are_ toward _the_ righteous,
and his ears toward their cry for help.

###### v16
The face of Yahweh _is_ against evildoers,
to cut off the remembrance of them from _the_ earth.

###### v17
They ^[That is, the righteous] cry out and Yahweh hears
and delivers them from all _of_ their troubles.

###### v18
Yahweh _is_ near to _those who are_ heartbroken
and saves _those who are_ crushed in spirit.

###### v19
Many _are the_ distresses of _the_ righteous,
but Yahweh delivers him out of them all.

###### v20
_He_ protects all his bones;
not one of them is broken.

###### v21
Evil will slay _the_ wicked,
and _those who_ hate _the_ righteous will incur guilt.

###### v22
Yahweh redeems the life of his servants,
and none who take refuge in him will incur guilt.