---
aliases:
  - Psalms 37
---

[[Ps-36|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-38|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Do not fret because of evildoers;
do not be envious of doers of wickedness.

###### v2
For like the grass they will dry up quickly,
and like green vegetation they will wither.

###### v3
Trust Yahweh and do good.
Abide _in the_ land and feed on faithfulness. ^[That is, God's faithfulness]

###### v4
Take pleasure in Yahweh as well,
and he will give to you the requests of your heart.

###### v5
_Commit to_ ^[Literally "Roll upon"] Yahweh your way;
Trust also on him and he will act.

###### v6
Then he will bring forth your righteousness like the light,
and your justice like the noonday.

###### v7
Be quiet before Yahweh and wait for him.
Do not fret about one who succeeds _in_ his way,
about a man making plots.

###### v8
Refrain from anger and forsake wrath.
Do not fret; _it_ only brings evil.

###### v9
For evildoers will be cut off,
but those who wait for Yahweh--
they will possess _the_ land.

###### v10
And ^[Or "But"] yet a little _while_ and the wicked will not be,
and you will look carefully upon his place, but he will not be.

###### v11
But _the_ afflicted will possess _the_ land,
and they will take pleasure in an abundance of peace.

###### v12
_The_ wicked plans _evil_ against the righteous,
and gnashes at him _with_ his teeth.

###### v13
_The_ Lord laughs at him,
for he sees that his day is coming.

###### v14
_The_ wicked have drawn _the_ sword and have bent their bow
to throw down _the_ poor and _the_ needy,
to kill _those_ upright in _their_ way.

###### v15
Their sword will enter into their _own_ heart,
and their bows shall be broken.

###### v16
_The_ little belonging to the righteous _is_ better
than _the_ wealth of many wicked.

###### v17
For _the_ arms of _the_ wicked shall be broken,
but Yahweh supports _the_ righteous.

###### v18
Yahweh knows _the_ days of _the_ blameless,
and their inheritance will be forever.

###### v19
They will not be put to shame in distressing times, ^[Hebrew "time"]
and in _the_ days of famine they will be satisfied.

###### v20
But _the_ wicked will perish,
and the enemies of Yahweh _will be_ like _the_ splendor of _the_ pastures.
They vanish; in smoke they vanish.

###### v21
_The_ wicked borrows and does not repay,
but _the_ righteous _is_ gracious and gives.

###### v22
For those blessed _by_ him shall possess _the_ land,
but those cursed _by_ him shall be cut off.

###### v23
_The_ steps of a man are established by Yahweh,
and he takes pleasure in his way.

###### v24
Though he fall, he will not be cast headlong,
for Yahweh supports _him with_ his hand.

###### v25
I was a youth, but I am _now_ old;
yet I have not seen _the_ righteous forsaken
or his children _begging for_ ^[Literally "searching"] bread.

###### v26
All the day he _is_ gracious and lends,
and his children _are_ a blessing.

###### v27
Turn aside from evil and do good
and _so_ abide forever.

###### v28
For Yahweh loves justice
and will not forsake his faithful ones.
They are protected forever.
But _the_ children of _the_ wicked will be cut off.

###### v29
_The_ righteous will possess _the_ land
and abide in it forever.

###### v30
_The_ mouth of _the_ righteous utters wisdom,
and his tongue speaks justice.

###### v31
The law of his God _is_ in his heart.
His steps will not slip.

###### v32
_The_ wicked watches for the righteous
and seeks to kill him.

###### v33
Yahweh will not abandon him into his hand,
and he will not let him be condemned when he is judged.

###### v34
Wait for Yahweh and keep his way,
and he will exalt you to possess _the_ land.
When _the_ wicked are cut off, you will see _it_.

###### v35
I have seen _the_ wicked acting violently
and spreading himself out
like a luxuriant native tree.

###### v36
Then he passed on ^[Dead Sea Scrolls and the versions read "I passed by"] and behold, he was not.
And I sought him, but he could not be found.

###### v37
Observe _the_ blameless and look at _the_ upright,
for _there is_ a future for a man of peace.

###### v38
But transgressors shall be destroyed altogether.
_The_ future of _the_ wicked shall be cut off.

###### v39
And ^[Some manuscripts omit "and," preserving the acrostic] _the_ salvation of _the_ righteous _is_ from Yahweh,
their refuge in _the_ time of trouble.

###### v40
And Yahweh helps them and he rescues them.
He rescues them from _the_ wicked and saves them,
because they take refuge in him.