---
aliases:
  - Psalms 41
---

[[Ps-40|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-42|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Blessed _is the one who_ has regard for _the_ poor;
in _the_ day of disaster, Yahweh delivers him.

###### v2
Yahweh protects him and keeps him alive;
he is blessed in the land,
and you do not give him
into the will ^[Hebrew "soul"] of his enemies.

###### v3
Yahweh sustains him on _his_ sick bed.
In his illness, you _restore to health_. ^[Literally "his every bed you change"]

###### v4
As for me, I said, "O Yahweh, be gracious _to_ me.
Heal me, ^[Or "my soul"] for I have sinned against you."

###### v5
My enemies speak evil about me,
"When will he die and his name perish?"

###### v6
And when one comes to see _me_, he speaks falsely;
his heart gathers disaster for itself.
He goes out to the street; he speaks.

###### v7
All who hate me speak together against me.
Against me they assume the _worst_ ^[Literally "evil"] for me:

###### v8
"A ruinous thing is poured out on him,
and _now_ that he lies down, he will not rise up again."

###### v9
Even _my close friend_, ^[Literally "the man of my peace"] whom I trusted,
_who_ ate my bread,
has lifted _his_ heel against me.

###### v10
But you, O Yahweh, be gracious to me and raise me up
that I may repay them.

###### v11
By this I know that you delight in me:
because my enemy has not shouted in triumph over me.

###### v12
As for me, you have upheld me in my integrity,
and you have set me in your presence forever.

###### v13
Blessed _be_ Yahweh, the God of Israel,
from everlasting to everlasting.
Amen and Amen.