---
aliases:
  - Psalms 49
---

[[Ps-48|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-50|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Hear this, all _you_ peoples;
give ear, all _you_ inhabitants of _the_ world,

###### v2
both low and high,
rich and poor together.

###### v3
My mouth will speak wisdom,
and the meditation of my heart _will be_ understanding.

###### v4
I will incline my ear to a proverb;
I will _propound_ ^[Literally "open"] my riddle on a lyre.

###### v5
Why should I fear in _times of calamity_, ^[Literally "the days of evil"]
_when_ iniquity surrounds me at my heels,

###### v6
those who trust their wealth
and boast about the abundance of their riches?

###### v7
Surely a man cannot redeem a brother.
He cannot give to God his ransom

###### v8
(since ^[Hebrew "and"] the redemption price for their life is costly
and it always fails),

###### v9
so that he may stay alive forever
_and_ not see the pit.

###### v10
For he sees _that_ the wise die,
together _with the_ fool and brute they perish,
and leave their wealth to the next _generation_.

###### v11
Within them _they think_ their houses _are_ forever,
their dwelling places from generation to generation.
They _name_ ^[Literally "call"] _their_ lands by their _own_ names.

###### v12
But man cannot continue in _his_ pomp.
He is like the beasts _that_ perish.

###### v13
This _is_ the journey ^[Hebrew "way"] _of those who_ have foolish _confidence_,
and those after them _who_ accept their sayings. _Selah_

###### v14
Like sheep they are destined to Sheol;
death will shepherd them.
But the upright will rule over them in the morning,
and their forms _will be for_ Sheol to consume,
_far from_ his lofty abode.

###### v15
Surely God will ransom my life
from the _power_ ^[Literally "hand"] of Sheol,
because he will receive me. _Selah_

###### v16
Do not fear when a man becomes rich,
when the wealth ^[Or "honor"] of his house increases,

###### v17
because when he dies he will not take _away_ any _of it_.
His wealth will not follow down after him.

###### v18
Though he congratulated his soul while he was living
--and _people_ will praise you when you do well for yourself--

###### v19
it ^[That is, his soul] will go to the generation of his fathers.
Never will they see light.

###### v20
Humankind in _its_ pomp, but does not understand,
is like the beasts _that_ perish.