---
aliases:
  - Psalms 44
---

[[Ps-43|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-45|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O God, we have heard with our ears;
our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] have told us
of work you worked in their days,
in days of old.

###### v2
You _with_ your hand drove out the nations,
but them ^[That is, Israel] you planted.
You harmed _the_ peoples,
but them ^[That is, Israel] you let spread out.

###### v3
For not with their sword
did they possess _the_ land,
and their arm did not give them victory.
Rather _it was_ your right hand and your arm
and the light of your presence,
because you delighted in them.

###### v4
You are my king, O God.
Command ^[Or "who commands," see LXX] victories for Jacob.

###### v5
By you we push down our enemies;
by your name we tread down those who rise up against us.

###### v6
For I do not trust my bow,
and my sword cannot give me victory.

###### v7
Rather you have saved us from our enemies, ^[Or "made us victorious over our enemies"]
and have humiliated those who hate us.

###### v8
In God we boast all the day,
and we will give thanks _to_ your name forever. _Selah_

###### v9
Surely you have rejected and disgraced us,
and have not gone out with our armies.

###### v10
You have caused us to pull back from _the_ enemy,
and _so_ those who hate us have plundered for themselves.

###### v11
You have given us as sheep _for_ food,
and among the nations you have scattered us.

###### v12
You have sold your people _cheaply_, ^[Literally "for _what is_ not wealth"]
and did not profit by their price.

###### v13
You have made us a taunt to our neighbors,
a derision and a scorn to those around us.

###### v14
You have made us a byword among the nations,
a shaking of _the_ head among _the_ peoples.

###### v15
_All day long_ ^[Literally "All of the day"] my disgrace _is_ before me,
and the shame of my face covers me,

###### v16
because of _the_ voice of _the_ taunter and _the_ reviler,
because of _the_ enemy and _the_ avenger.

###### v17
All this has befallen us, though we have not forgotten you,
and we have not been false to your covenant.

###### v18
Our heart has not turned back,
and our steps have _not_ turned aside from your way.

###### v19
But you have crushed us in a place of jackals,
and have covered us with deep shadow.

###### v20
If we had forgotten the name of our God,
or had spread out our hands _in prayer_ to a foreign god,

###### v21
would not God discover this,
for he knows _the_ secrets of _the_ heart?

###### v22
Rather, on account of you we are killed _all day long_; ^[Literally "all of the day"]
we are accounted as sheep for slaughter.

###### v23
Wake up! Why do you sleep, O Lord?
Awake! Do not reject forever.

###### v24
Why do you hide your face?
_Have_ you forgotten our misery and our oppression?

###### v25
For our soul is bowed down to the dust.
Our _body_ ^[Literally "belly"] clings to the ground.

###### v26
Rise up! _Be a_ help for us,
and redeem us for the sake of your loyal love.