---
aliases:
  - Psalms 48
---

[[Ps-47|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-49|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Yahweh _is_ great and very worthy of praise
in the city of our God, in his _holy mountain_. ^[Literally "mountain of holiness"]

###### v2
Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth,
_is_ _Mount Zion_, ^[Literally "the mountain of Zion"] _in the far north_, ^[Literally "far of north"; the word translated "north" could refer to Mount Zaphon]
_the_ city of _the_ great king.

###### v3
God _is_ in her citadels;
he is known as a _high_ stronghold.

###### v4
For see, the kings assembled; ^[That is, preparing for battle]
they advanced together.

###### v5
_They themselves saw_ ^[Literally "They, they saw"] _it_, so they were astonished.
They were terrified; they ran off.

###### v6
Trembling seized them there--
pain as of a woman in labor.

###### v7
With an east wind
you shatter ^[A few Hebrew manuscripts read "like an east wind _that_ shatters"] the ships of Tarshish. ^[That is, ships _that can sail to_ Tarshish, i.e. well built, able to traverse great distances]

###### v8
As we have heard, so we have seen
in the city of Yahweh of hosts, in the city of our God.
God will establish her forever. _Selah_

###### v9
We have pondered your loyal love, O God,
in the midst of your temple.

###### v10
As _is_ your name, O God, so _is_ your praise
to _the_ ends of _the_ earth.
Your right hand is full of righteousness.

###### v11
Let _Mount Zion_ ^[Literally "the mountain of Zion"] rejoice;
let the daughters of Judah rejoice
because of your judgments.

###### v12
Walk about Zion and circle it;
count her towers.

###### v13
_Consider well_ ^[Literally "Set your heart to"] her ramparts.
Go through her citadels
so that you can tell _the_ next generation

###### v14
that this _is_ God, our God forever and ever.
_He himself_ ^[Literally "he, he will …"] will guide us until death.