---
aliases:
  - Psalms 40
---

[[Ps-39|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-41|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I waited patiently for Yahweh,
And he inclined to me
and heard my cry for help.

###### v2
And _so_ he brought me up from _the_ roaring pit, ^[Some read "pit of destruction"]
from the miry clay.
And he put my feet upon a rock;
he made my steps steady.

###### v3
Then he put a new song in my mouth,
a praise to our God.
Many will see and fear,
and will trust Yahweh.

###### v4
Blessed _is_ the man who makes Yahweh his trust
and does not turn to _the_ proud and _to those who_ fall away _to_ a lie. ^[Or "false god"]

###### v5
Many things, O Yahweh my God, you have done--
your wonderful deeds and your thoughts toward us.
There is none to compare with you.
If I _tried to_ proclaim and tell _of them_,
they would be too numerous to count.

###### v6
A sacrifice and offering you do not desire.
_My ears you have opened_. ^[Literally "Ears you have dug for me."]
Burnt offering and sin offering you have not demanded.

###### v7
Then I said, "Look, I come.
In _the_ scroll of _the_ book
it is written concerning me:

###### v8
'I delight to do your will, O my God,
and your law _is_ _deep within me_.'" ^[Literally "in the midst of my intestines"]

###### v9
I have brought good tidings _of_ righteousness in the great congregation.
Look, I have not shut my lips.
O Yahweh, _you surely know that_. ^[Literally "you, you know"]

###### v10
Your righteousness I have not hidden in the midst of my heart.
I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation.
I have not concealed your loyal love or your faithfulness
from _the_ great congregation.

###### v11
As for you, O Yahweh, do not withhold your mercies from me.
Let your loyal love and your faithfulness
continually preserve me.

###### v12
For evils without number have encompassed me.
My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to see.
They are more than the hairs of my head,
and my heart fails me.

###### v13
Be pleased, O Yahweh, to deliver me.
O Yahweh, hurry to help me.

###### v14
Let them be shamed and abashed altogether
who seek to take away my life. ^[Or "soul"]
Let them be repulsed and humiliated
_who_ desire my harm.

###### v15
Let them be appalled because of their shame,
those who say to me, "Aha! Aha!"

###### v16
Let them rejoice and be glad in you,
all those who seek you.
Let them say continually, "Yahweh is great!"
--those who love your salvation.

###### v17
But I _am_ poor and needy.
Let my Lord consider me.
You _are_ my help and my deliverer.
O my God, do not delay.