---
aliases:
  - Psalms 42
---

[[Ps-41|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-43|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
As a deer longs for streams of water,
so my soul longs for you, O God.

###### v2
My soul thirsts for God, for _the_ living God.
When shall I come and appear before God? ^[Some Hebrew manuscripts and versions read "and see the face of God?"]

###### v3
My tears have been my food day and night,
while _they_ say to me all day _long_,
"Where _is_ your God?"

###### v4
These I remember and I pour out my soul within me:
that I would go with the multitude;
I led them _in procession_ to the house ^[Or "temple"] of God,
with a voice of rejoicing and thanksgiving,
a crowd celebrating a festival.

###### v5
Why are you _in despair_, ^[Literally "bowed down"] O my soul,
and disturbed within me?
Hope in God, because I will again praise him,
_for_ the salvation of his presence.

###### v6
O my God, within me my soul is _in despair_; ^[Literally "bowed down"]
therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan
and the heights of Hermon, from the mountain of Mizar.

###### v7
Deep _is_ calling to deep
at ^[Or "to"] the thunder of your waterfalls.
All your breakers and your waves
have passed over me.

###### v8
By day Yahweh commands his loyal love,
and in the night his song _is_ with me,
a prayer to the God of my life.

###### v9
I say to God, my rock,
"Why have you forgotten me?
Why must I walk about mourning
because of _the_ oppression of _the_ enemy?"

###### v10
_As_ with a shattering in my bones
my oppressors taunt me,
while they say to me _all day_, ^[Literally "all the day"]
"Where _is_ your God?"

###### v11
Why are you _in despair_, ^[Literally "bowed down"] O my soul?
And why are you disturbed within me?
Hope in God, because I shall again praise him,
_my salvation_ ^[Literally "the salvation of my face"] and my God.