---
aliases:
  - Psalms 45
---

[[Ps-44|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-46|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
My heart is moved _with_ a good word;
I recite my _compositions_ ^[Literally "works," that is, the song he has composed] to _the_ king.
My tongue _is the_ pen _of_ a skilled scribe.

###### v2
You are _the most_ handsome of _the_ sons of humankind;
grace is poured out on your lips;
therefore God has blessed you forever.

###### v3
Gird your sword on _your_ thigh, O mighty one,
_in_ your splendor and your majesty.

###### v4
And _in_ your majesty _ride victoriously_, ^[Literally "Succeed! Ride!"]
because of truth and humility _and_ righteousness.
And let your right hand teach you awesome deeds.

###### v5
Your arrows _are_ sharp;
peoples fall under you
in the midst of the king's enemies.

###### v6
Your throne, O God, _is_ forever and ever.
A scepter of uprightness _is_
the scepter of your kingdom.

###### v7
You love righteousness and hate wickedness.
Therefore God, your God, has anointed you
from among your companions _with_ festive oil.

###### v8
All your robes _are scented with_ myrrh and aloes _and_ cassia.
From palaces of ivory stringed instruments gladden you.

###### v9
Kings' daughters _are_ among your noble ladies.
The queen stands at your right hand in gold of Ophir.

###### v10
Hear, O daughter, and _discern_ ^[Literally "see"] and incline your ear,
and forget your people and your father's house.

###### v11
Let the king desire your beauty. ^[Or "Should the king desire … then bow down …"]
Because he _is_ your lord, therefore ^[Hebrew "and"] bow down to him.

###### v12
Even the daughter of Tyre _will come_ with a gift.
_The_ rich from among people will seek your _favor_. ^[Literally "face"]

###### v13
The king's daughter is all glorious within; ^[That is, within her bridal chamber]
her garment _is_ of gold embroidered cloth.

###### v14
She is brought to the king _in_ colorful garments.
_The_ young women behind her, her attendants,
_are_ being brought to you.

###### v15
They are led with joy and gladness.
They enter _the_ palace of _the_ king.

###### v16
In place of your ^[The pronouns and verbal forms are masculine in this verse] fathers will be your sons.
You will make them princes in all the land. ^[Or "earth"]

###### v17
I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations;
therefore peoples will praise you forever and ever.