---
aliases:
  - Psalms 50
---

[[Ps-49|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-51|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The Supreme God, God, Yahweh, has spoken
and summoned _the_ earth,
from _the_ rising of _the_ sun
to its setting.

###### v2
From Zion, _the_ perfection of beauty,
God shines forth.

###### v3
Our God comes and he is not silent.
Before him fire devours,
and around him it is very tempestuous.

###### v4
He summons the heavens above
and the earth that he might judge his people:

###### v5
"Gather to me my loyal ones,
_those_ who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice."

###### v6
And _the_ heavens declare his righteousness,
because God himself is judge. _Selah_

###### v7
"Hear, O my people, and I will speak,
O Israel, and I will testify against you.
I am God, your God.

###### v8
It is not concerning _a lack of_ your sacrifices _that_ I rebuke you,
and your burnt offerings _are_ before me continually.

###### v9
I will not take from your house a bull
_or_ from your stalls a he-goat,

###### v10
because every animal of the forest is mine,
_the_ cattle on a thousand hills.

###### v11
I know every bird of _the_ mountains,
and _every_ moving creature in _the_ field _is_ mine.

###### v12
If I were hungry I would not tell you,
because _the_ world and its fullness _are_ mine.

###### v13
Do I eat _the_ flesh of bulls
or drink _the_ blood of goats?

###### v14
Offer to God a thank offering
and pay your vows to _the_ Most High.

###### v15
And call me in _the_ day of trouble;
I will deliver you, and you will glorify me."

###### v16
But to the wicked God says,
"What _right_ have you to recite my statutes
and _mention my covenant with your mouth_, ^[Literally "take my covenant on your mouth"]

###### v17
while you yourself hate discipline,
and cast my words behind you?

###### v18
When you see a thief, then you are pleased with him,
and your association _is_ with adulterers.

###### v19
You give your mouth free rein for evil,
and you harness your tongue to deceit.

###### v20
You sit and speak against your brother;
you slander your mother's son.

###### v21
These _things_ you have done, and I have been silent;
You imagined that I was just like you.
I will rebuke you and present _an argument_ before your eyes.

###### v22
Now consider this, you who forget God,
lest I tear _you_ apart, and there _will be_ none to deliver.

###### v23
He who sacrifices a thank offering honors me,
and he _who_ orders _his_ way;
I will show him the salvation of God."