---
aliases:
  - Psalms 59
---

[[Ps-58|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-60|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Deliver me from my enemies, O my God.
Protect ^[The sense is that of making something inaccessibly high, like a fortress] me from those who rise up against me.

###### v2
Deliver me from workers of iniquity,
and from men of bloodshed save me.

###### v3
For look, they lie in wait for my life. ^[Hebrew "soul"]
The mighty attack ^[Or "stir up strife"] against me,
not _because of_ my transgression or my sin, O Yahweh.

###### v4
Without guilt on my part they run and ready themselves.
Awake to meet me and see.

###### v5
And you, Yahweh, God _of_ hosts, _are_ the God of Israel.
Rouse yourself to punish all the nations.
Do not be gracious to any _who_ treacherously plot evil. _Selah_

###### v6
They return at evening; they howl like dogs ^[Hebrew "dog"]
while they prowl _the_ city.

###### v7
Look, they pour out _talk_ with their mouth.
Swords _are_ on their lips,
for _they say_, "Who hears?"

###### v8
But you, O Yahweh, will laugh at them;
you will mock all _the_ nations.

###### v9
O my strength, ^[Reading with a few Hebrew manuscripts and the LXX, Targum and v. [[Ps-59#v17|17]]] I will watch for you,
because _you_, O God, _are_ my (high) stronghold.

###### v10
My ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_), some Hebrew manuscripts and the LXX] God of loyal love will meet me;
God will cause me to look _in triumph_ on my enemies.

###### v11
Do not kill them, lest my people forget.
Make them _to_ wander by your power,
and bring them down, O Lord, our shield.

###### v12
_By_ the sin of their mouth _and_ the words of their lips,
even in their pride, let them be trapped,
and for _the_ curses ^[Hebrew "curse"] and lies ^[Hebrew "lie"] they proclaim.

###### v13
Destroy in anger; destroy so they are no more,
so that they may know that God _is_ ruling in Jacob
to the ends of the earth. _Selah_

###### v14
They return at evening; they howl like dogs ^[Hebrew "dog"]
while they prowl _the_ city.

###### v15
As for them, they wander for food.
If they are not satisfied, then they continue all night. ^[Or "then they growl"]

###### v16
But as for me, I will sing _of_ your strength,
and I will hail your loyal love in the morning,
because you have been my _high_ stronghold
and a refuge in my _time_ ^[Literally "day"] of trouble.

###### v17
O my strength, to you I will give praise,
because God _is_ my _high_ stronghold,
my God of loyal love.