---
aliases:
  - Psalms 55
---

[[Ps-54|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-56|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Give ear, O God, _to_ my prayer,
and do not hide yourself from my plea.

###### v2
Attend to me and answer me.
I am restless in my lamenting and I groan,

###### v3
because of _the_ voice _of_ an enemy,
because of the oppression of the wicked,
because they bring down evil on me,
and in anger they hold a grudge _against_ me.

###### v4
My heart trembles within me,
and deathly terrors fall on me.

###### v5
Fear and trembling come on me,
and horror overwhelms me.

###### v6
So I say, "_Oh, that_ ^[Literally "Who will give that"] I had wings like a dove.
I would fly away and be at rest.

###### v7
Look, I would flee far away.
I would dwell in the wilderness. _Selah_

###### v8
I would hurry to my refuge
from _the_ raging wind _and_ storm."

###### v9
Confuse, O Lord; divide their speech,
because I see violence and strife in the city.

###### v10
Day and night they go around it on its walls,
and iniquity and trouble _are_ in its midst.

###### v11
Destruction _is_ within it,
and oppression and deceit
do not depart from its public square.

###### v12
For _it is_ not an enemy _that_ taunts me,
or I could bear _it_.
_It is not_ one who hates me _that_ magnifies himself over me,
or I could hide myself from him.

###### v13
But _it is_ you, a man my equal,
my friend and confidant.

###### v14
_We_ who would take sweet counsel together;
in the house ^[Or "temple"] of God
we would walk with _the_ throng.

###### v15
Let death deceive them. May they descend to Sheol alive,
because evil _is_ in their home _and_ _heart_. ^[Literally "inward part"]

###### v16
As for me, I will call to God,
and Yahweh will save me.

###### v17
_Morning, noon and night_ ^[Literally "evening and morning and noon"] I will lament and groan loudly,
and he will hear my voice.

###### v18
He safely redeems my life from _the_ battle against me, ^[Or "my battle"]
because _those standing_ against me are among many.

###### v19
God will hear and answer them, ^[Or "and humble them"]
_he_ who _is_ enthroned from of old, _Selah_
Because they do not change,
and they do not fear God.

###### v20
He has put forth his hands against _his friends_; ^[Literally "those at peace with him"]
he has defiled his covenant.

###### v21
The _buttery words_ ^[Literally "butter"] of his mouth were smooth,
but _there was_ battle in his heart.
His words were smoother than oil,
but they _were_ drawn swords.

###### v22
Cast your burden on Yahweh,
and he will sustain you.
He will never allow the righteous to be moved. ^[Or "shaken"]

###### v23
But you, O God, you will bring them down to _the_ pit of corruption.
_The_ men of bloodshed and deceit will not live half their days,
but I will trust you.