---
aliases:
  - Psalms 51
---

[[Ps-50|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-52|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Be gracious to me, O God, according to your loyal love.
According to your abundant mercies,
blot out my transgressions.

###### v2
Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity,
and from my sin cleanse me.

###### v3
For _I myself know_ ^[Literally "I, I know"] my transgressions, ^[Or "rebellions"]
and my sin _is_ ever before me.

###### v4
Against you, only you, I have sinned
and have done this evil ^[Hebrew "the evil"] in your eyes,
so that you are correct when you speak,
you are blameless when you judge.

###### v5
Behold, in iniquity I was born,
and in sin my mother conceived me.

###### v6
Behold, you delight _in_ truth in the inward parts,
and in _the_ hidden _parts_ you make me to know wisdom.

###### v7
Purify me with hyssop, and I shall be clean.
Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

###### v8
Make me hear joy and gladness;
let _the_ bones you have crushed rejoice.

###### v9
Hide your face from my sins,
and all my iniquities blot out.

###### v10
Create a clean heart for me, O God,
and renew a steadfast spirit _within me_. ^[Literally "in my inner parts"]

###### v11
Do not cast me away from your presence,
and do not take your Holy Spirit from me.

###### v12
Restore to me the joy of your salvation,
and with a willing spirit sustain me.

###### v13
_Then_ I will teach transgressors your ways,
and sinners will turn back to you.

###### v14
Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God,
the God of my salvation;
_then_ my tongue will sing aloud _of_ your righteousness.

###### v15
O Lord, open my lips,
and my mouth will proclaim your praise.

###### v16
For you do not delight _in_ sacrifice or I would give _it_.
_With_ a burnt offering you are not pleased.

###### v17
The sacrifices of God _are_ a broken spirit;
A broken and contrite heart,
O God, you will not despise.

###### v18
Do good in your favor toward Zion.
Build the walls of Jerusalem.

###### v19
Then you will delight _in_ righteous sacrifices,
burnt offering and whole burnt offering.
Then bulls will be offered on your altar.