---
aliases:
  - Psalms 58
---

[[Ps-57|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-59|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Do you really speak _what is_ right _when_ silent? ^[A slight emendation of the Hebrew text yields "what is right, O gods," or "O mighty ones"]
_Do_ you judge fairly the children of humankind? ^[Or "Do you judge fairly, O sons of humankind?"]

###### v2
No, in _your_ heart you plan injustices;
in the land ^[Or "on the earth"] you weigh out the violence of your hands.

###### v3
The wicked are estranged from _the_ womb.
They go astray from _the_ belly, speaking lies.

###### v4
Their venom _is_ like snake venom;
_They are_ like a deaf viper that closes its ear

###### v5
so that it does not hear _the_ voice of charmers
_or the_ skilled caster of spells.

###### v6
O God, break their teeth in their mouth.
Break off _the_ fangs of _the_ young lions, O Yahweh.

###### v7
Let them run _away_ like water _that_ runs off.
_When_ he bends _the bow_, let his arrows _be_ as though they were cut off. ^[Or "as though they were withered _stalks_"]

###### v8
_Let them be_ like a snail _that_ melts away _as_ it goes;
_like the_ stillborn of woman _that_ do not see _the_ sun.

###### v9
Before your pots can feel _the heat of_ a thornbush,
whether green _or_ _dry_, ^[Literally "burning"] he will sweep it away. ^[The Hebrew of this verse is difficult to interpret]

###### v10
_The_ righteous will rejoice when he sees _the_ vengeance;
he will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.

###### v11
And people ^[Hebrew "a person"] will say, "Surely _there is_ a _reward_ ^[Literally "fruit"] for the righteous.
Surely there is a God _who_ judges in the land." ^[Or "on the earth"]