---
aliases:
  - Psalms 65
---

[[Ps-64|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-66|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Praise awaits you, O God, in Zion,
and to you _the_ vow shall be fulfilled.

###### v2
O _you who_ hear prayer,
to you all flesh will come.

###### v3
Iniquities ^[Hebrew "matters of iniquities"] prevail over me.
As for our transgressions, you will _forgive_ ^[Literally "provide atonement for"] them.

###### v4
Blessed _is one whom_ you choose and bring near,
_that_ he may abide in your courts.
We will be satisfied with the goodness of your house,
your holy temple.

###### v5
By awesome deeds in righteousness you will answer us,
O God of our salvation,
_you who are the_ confidence _of_ all _the_ ends of _the_ earth
and _of_ the far-off seas,

###### v6
_who_ established the mountains by his strength,
_the one who_ is girded with might,

###### v7
_who_ stills _the_ roar of _the_ seas,
the roar of their waves,
and _the_ commotion of _the_ peoples,

###### v8
so that ^[Hebrew "and"] _the_ inhabitants of _the_ farthest reaches are in awe of your signs.
You make the dawn and sunset sing for joy.

###### v9
You care for ^[Or "visit"] the land ^[Or "earth"] and water it;
you greatly enrich it.
The stream of God _is_ filled with waters.
You provide their grain,
for so you have established it.

###### v10
You drench its furrows,
penetrating its ridges.
With rains you soften it;
its growth you bless.

###### v11
You crown the year with your _bounty_, ^[Literally "goodness"]
and your wagon paths drip with _richness_. ^[Literally "fatness"]

###### v12
They drop _on the_ pastures of _the_ wilderness,
and the hills gird themselves with joy.

###### v13
_The_ pasturelands put on flocks,
and _the_ valleys clothe themselves with grain.
They shout in triumph;
they even sing.