---
aliases:
  - Psalms 64
---

[[Ps-63|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-65|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Hear my voice, O God, in my lamenting.
Preserve my life from _the_ fear of _the_ enemy.

###### v2
Hide me from _the_ secret plots ^[Hebrew "plot"] of evildoers,
from _the_ unrest of _those who_ do iniquity,

###### v3
who sharpen their tongue like a sword.
They bend _their bow to shoot_ their arrows--bitter words,

###### v4
to shoot from ^[Hebrew "in"] their ^[Hebrew "the"] hiding places _at the_ blameless.
Suddenly they shoot _at_ him and do not fear.

###### v5
They encourage themselves _in the_ evil matter.
They talk of secretly laying snares.
They say, "Who will see them?"

###### v6
_They carefully plot_ ^[Literally "They search out"] injustices _saying_,
"We have perfected _the perfect plot_!" ^[Literally "a plotted plot"]
Both _the_ _inner thought_ ^[Literally "inward part"] and heart of _a_ man _are_ deep.

###### v7
But God will shoot them;
with an arrow they will suddenly be wounded.

###### v8
 ^[The Hebrew of this verse is very difficult] And they _who_ would cause him ^[That is, the psalmist] to stumble,
their _own_ tongue _will be_ against them.
All who gaze on them will shake. ^[Perhaps a shaking of the head; a similar Hebrew form could be translated "will flee"]

###### v9
And then ^[Hebrew "and"] all men ^[Hebrew "man"] will fear,
and will declare the working of God,
and will understand his doing.

###### v10
_The_ righteous will rejoice in Yahweh and take refuge in him,
and all _the_ upright in heart will boast.