---
aliases:
  - Psalms 68
---

[[Ps-67|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-69|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
God will arise; his enemies will be scattered,
and those who hate him will flee from before him.

###### v2
As smoke is driven off, you will drive _them_ off.
As wax melts before fire,
_the_ wicked will perish before God.

###### v3
But _the_ righteous will be glad; they will exalt before God,
and will rejoice with joy.

###### v4
Sing to God, sing praises to his name.
Lift up _a song_ to _the_ rider on the clouds--his name is Yah-- ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]
and rejoice before him.

###### v5
A father to orphans and a judge for widows
_is_ God in his holy habitation.

###### v6
God settles the lonely in a home;
he brings prisoners out into prosperity.
But the rebellious abide in a barren land.

###### v7
O God, when you went out before your people,
when you marched through _the_ desert, _Selah_

###### v8
_the_ earth shook; _the_ heavens also dripped _rain_
at the presence of God who _was_ at Sinai,
at the presence of God, the God of Israel.

###### v9
You caused abundant rain to fall, O God.
When your inheritance was weary you revived it.

###### v10
Your community dwelled in it.
You provided in your goodness for the poor, O God.

###### v11
The Lord gives _the_ word.
Great is the company of women who announce:

###### v12
"_The_ kings of armies flee, they flee,
and she _who_ remains at home divides _the_ spoil.

###### v13
Though you _men_ lie down between the sheepfolds,
_you will be like the_ wings of a dove covered in silver
and its pinions in yellow gold."

###### v14
When Shaddai scattered kings on it,
on Zalmon it snowed. ^[Or "you caused it to snow on"]

###### v15
A mountain of God ^[Or "A mighty mountain"] _is_ the mountain of Bashan;
a mountain of _many_ peaks _is_ the mountain of Bashan.

###### v16
Why do you look with hostility, O many-peaked mountains?
This ^[Hebrew "The"] mountain God desires for his dwelling.
Yes, Yahweh will abide _in it_ forever.

###### v17
The chariots of God
_are_ twice ten thousand, _with_ thousands doubled.
The Lord _is_ among them _at_ Sinai, distinctive _in victory_. ^[Or "_as at_ Sinai, in the sanctuary"]

###### v18
You have ascended on high; you have led away captives.
You have received gifts _from_ among humankind,
and even _from the_ rebellious, so that Yah ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"] God may dwell _there_.

###### v19
Blessed be the Lord. Daily he loads us _with benefits_, ^[Or "daily carries our burden"]
the God _of_ our salvation. ^[Or "victory"] _Selah_

###### v20
Our God _is_ a God of deliverances,
and to _the_ Yahweh the Lord belong escapes from death.

###### v21
But God will shatter the head of his enemies,
the hairy scalp _of the one who_ _continues on_ ^[Literally "is walking about"] in his guilt.

###### v22
The Lord said, "I will bring _them_ back from Bashan;
I will bring _them_ back from _the_ depths of _the_ sea,

###### v23
so that your foot may shatter _them_ bloody
_for_ the tongues of your dogs _to have_ their share from _the_ enemies."

###### v24
They have seen your processions, O God,
the processions of my God, my king, distinctive _in victory_. ^[Or "into the sanctuary"]

###### v25
Singers went up front, those playing stringed instruments last,
between _them_ young women _playing_ tambourines.

###### v26
Bless God in _the_ assemblies,
Yahweh from the fountain of Israel.

###### v27
There _is_ little Benjamin ruling them,
_with_ the princes of Judah _in_ their throng,
the princes of Zebulun _and_ the princes of Naphtali.

###### v28
Your God has commanded your strength.
Show yourself strong, O God, _by_ what you perform ^[Or "you who have worked"] for us.

###### v29
Because your temple _is_ above Jerusalem,
kings will bring tribute to you.

###### v30
Rebuke _the_ beasts in ^[Hebrew "of"] _the_ reeds,
_the_ herd of bulls with _the_ calves of _the_ peoples,
trampling the pieces of silver. ^[Or "_until each_ humbles himself _by offering_ pieces of silver"]
Scatter _the_ nations _who_ delight in battles.

###### v31
Ambassadors ^[Reading with the LXX; meaning uncertain] will come from Egypt;
Cush will quickly stretch out her hands to God.

###### v32
O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God;
sing praise to _the_ Lord, _Selah_

###### v33
to the one who rides in the highest heavens of old.
See, he gives forth his voice, a mighty voice.

###### v34
Ascribe strength to God.
His majesty _is_ over Israel,
and his strength _is_ in the clouds.

###### v35
Awesome _are you_, O God, from your sanctuary. ^[Hebrew "sanctuaries"]
The God of Israel, _it is_ he who gives strength and might to the people.
Blessed be God.