---
aliases:
  - Psalms 62
---

[[Ps-61|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-63|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Only for God my soul _waits in_ silence.
From him _is_ my salvation.

###### v2
Only he _is_ my rock and my salvation,
my _high_ stronghold; I shall not be greatly shaken.

###### v3
How long will you attack a man?
All of you will be shattered ^[Or "All of you shatter _him_"]
like a leaning wall, a tottering fence.

###### v4
They only ^[This word appears first in the Hebrew verse.] plan to thrust _him_ down from his high position;
they are pleased _with_ deception.
With their mouths ^[Hebrew "his mouth"] they bless,
but _inwardly_ ^[Literally "in the midst of them"] they curse. _Selah_

###### v5
Only for God wait in silence, O my soul,
because my hope _is_ from him.

###### v6
Only he _is_ my rock and my salvation,
my _high_ stronghold; I shall not be shaken.

###### v7
On God _rests_ my salvation and my glory;
God ^[Or "In God"] is my strong rock, my refuge.

###### v8
Trust him at all times, O people;
pour out before him your heart.
God _is_ a refuge for us. _Selah_

###### v9
Only a vapor ^[Or "breath"] _are_ men of low degree,
a deception _are_ men of high degree.
_Weighed_ ^[Literally "To go up"] in a balance,
together they _are lighter_ than a vapor.

###### v10
Do not trust in extortion,
and do not put vain _confidence_ in robbery.
If wealth increases,
do not set _your_ heart _on it_.

###### v11
Once God has spoken;
twice I have heard this:
that strength _belongs_ to God.

###### v12
And to you _belongs_ loyal love, O Lord,
because you will render to each according to his work.