---
aliases:
  - Psalms 66
---

[[Ps-65|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-67|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Shout joyfully to God, all the earth.

###### v2
Sing the glory of his name.
_Set forth his glorious praise_. ^[Literally "set for glory--his praise"]

###### v3
Say to God, "How awesome are your works!
Because of the greatness of your strength,
your enemies will cringe before you.

###### v4
All the earth will bow in worship to you,
and sing _praise_ to you.
They will sing _the praise of_ your name." _Selah_

###### v5
Come and _consider_ ^[Literally "see"] the works of God;
_he is_ awesome _in his_ dealings ^[Hebrew "dealing"] with the children of humankind.

###### v6
He turned _the_ sea into dry ground;
they passed through the river on foot.
There we rejoiced in him.

###### v7
_He_ rules by his might forever;
his eyes keep watch on the nations.
Do not let the rebellious exalt themselves. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] _Selah_

###### v8
Bless our God, O peoples,
and cause the sound of his praise to be heard,

###### v9
the one who has kept our soul among the living,
and has not allowed our foot to slip.

###### v10
For you have tested us, O God;
you have tried us as silver is tried.

###### v11
You brought us into the net;
you placed a _heavy burden_ ^[Literally "oppression"] on our backs.

###### v12
You let men ^[Hebrew "man"] ride over our heads.
We went through fire and through water,
but you have brought us out to the place of abundance. ^[A slightly different Hebrew word yields "a broad place"]

###### v13
I will come into your house ^[Or "temple"] with burnt offerings.
I will pay to you my vows

###### v14
that my lips uttered,
and my mouth spoke in my distress.

###### v15
Burnt offerings of fat animals I will offer to you,
with _the_ smoke of rams.
I will do ^[That is, "offer"] cattle with rams. _Selah_

###### v16
Come _and_ hear, all you God-fearers, and I will tell
what he has done for me. ^[Hebrew "my soul"]

###### v17
I called to him with my mouth,
and he was extolled with my tongue. ^[A slightly different Hebrew word yields "his exaltation was under my tongue"]

###### v18
If I had considered evil in my heart,
the Lord would not have listened.

###### v19
However, God has listened;
he has attended to the sound of my prayer.

###### v20
Blessed be God,
who has not turned aside my prayer,
or his loyal love from me.