---
aliases:
  - Psalms 69
---

[[Ps-68|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-70|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Save me, O God,
because waters have come up to _my_ neck. ^[Hebrew "soul" or "life"]

###### v2
I sink in _the_ mud of the deep, and there is no foothold.
I have come to watery depths,
and _the_ torrent floods over me.

###### v3
I am weary with my calling _out_; my throat is parched.
My eyes are exhausted _in my_ waiting for my God.

###### v4
More numerous than the hairs of my head
are _those_ hating me without a cause.
_Those who are_ destroying me--my enemies wrongfully ^[Or, "those who oppose me _with_ falsehood"]-- are mighty.
What I did not steal, I then must restore.

###### v5
O God, _you yourself know_ ^[Literally "you, you know"] my foolishness,
and my guilty deeds are not hidden from you.

###### v6
Let those who wait for you not be put to shame because of me,
O Lord Yahweh _of_ hosts.
Let those who seek you not be disgraced because of me,
O God of Israel.

###### v7
Because on account of you I have borne reproach;
disgrace has covered my face.

###### v8
I have become a stranger to my brothers
and a foreigner to my mother's sons,

###### v9
because the zeal for your house ^[Or "temple"] has consumed me,
and the reproaches of those reproaching you have fallen on me.

###### v10
When I wept in the fasting of my soul,
it became reproaches for me.

###### v11
When I made sackcloth my clothing,
I became for them a byword.

###### v12
Those sitting at _the_ gate talk about me
_as_ also ^[Hebrew "and"] _the_ songs of _the_ drunkards.

###### v13
But as for me, my prayer _is_ to you, O Yahweh, for a favorable time,
O God, according to the abundance of your loyal love.
Answer me with the faithfulness of your salvation.

###### v14
Deliver me from _the_ mud and do not let me sink.
Let me be delivered from _those who_ hate me
and from _the_ watery depths.

###### v15
Do not let the torrent of waters flood over me,
or _the_ deep swallow me,
or the pit close its mouth over me.

###### v16
Answer me, O Yahweh, because your loyal love _is_ good;
according to your abundant mercies, turn to me,

###### v17
and do not hide your face from your servant.
Because I am in trouble, answer me quickly.

###### v18
Draw near to my soul; redeem it.
Because of my enemies, ransom me.

###### v19
You know my reproach, my shame and my disgrace.
_Fully known_ ^[Literally "_right_ in front of"] to you are all my adversaries.

###### v20
Reproach has broken my heart and I am sick.
And I hoped for sympathy, but there was none,
and for comforters, but I found none.

###### v21
They also gave me gall for food, ^[Or "they put poison in my food"]
and for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.

###### v22
Let their table before them be a trap,
and their _times of_ peace a snare.

###### v23
Let their eyes be dark so they cannot see,
and make their loins continually tremble.

###### v24
Pour out your indignation on them,
and let your burning anger overtake them.

###### v25
Let their camp be desolate.
Let none dwell in their tents,

###### v26
because they persecute _those_ whom you, yourself, have struck,
and they tell of the pain of _those_ you have wounded.

###### v27
_Add guilt on top of their guilt_, ^[Literally "Give guilt on their guilt"]
and do not let them _be acquitted_. ^[Literally "come into your righteousness"]

###### v28
Let them be blotted out of _the_ book of _the_ living,
and let them not be recorded with _the_ righteous.

###### v29
But as for me, _though_ I _am_ afflicted and pained,
your salvation will protect ^[The sense is that of making something inaccessibly high, like a fortress] me, O God.

###### v30
I will praise the name of God in song,
and magnify him with thanksgiving.

###### v31
For Yahweh it will be better than an ox _or_ bull,
horned _and_ hoofed. ^[That is, mature and ritually clean]

###### v32
_The_ afflicted will see _and_ rejoice.
O God seekers, let your heart revive, ^[Or "live"]

###### v33
because Yahweh hears _the_ needy
and does not despise his _own who are_ prisoners.

###### v34
Let heavens and earth praise him,
_the_ seas and all that moves in them,

###### v35
because God will save Zion
and build the cities of Judah,
that they may dwell there and possess it.

###### v36
And the offspring of his servants will inherit it,
and _those who_ love his name will abide in it.