---
aliases:
  - Psalms 77
---

[[Ps-76|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-78|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I cry out with my voice to God;
with my voice to God, that he may hear me.

###### v2
In the day I _have_ trouble, I seek ^[Or "make supplication to"] the Lord.
At night my hand stretches out _continually_; ^[Literally "it does not grow weary"]
my soul refuses to be comforted.

###### v3
I remember God and I groan loudly;
I meditate and my spirit grows faint.

###### v4
You hold _open_ my eyelids.
I am troubled and cannot speak.

###### v5
I think about _the_ days from long ago,
_the_ years of ancient times.

###### v6
I remember my song in the night.
With my heart I meditate,
and my spirit searches _to understand_.

###### v7
Will the Lord reject _us_ forever,
and will he never be pleased _with us_ again?

###### v8
Has his loyal love ceased forever?
Is _his_ promise ^[Hebrew "word"] ended throughout generations?

###### v9
Has God forgotten to have compassion?
Or has he closed off his mercies in anger? _Selah_

###### v10
So I said, "This pierces me-- ^[Or "this is my sickness"]
the right _hand_ of the Most High _has_ changed."

###### v11
I will remember the deeds of Yah. ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"]
Surely I will remember your wonders ^[Hebrew "wonder"] from long ago.

###### v12
I will also muse on all your work,
and meditate on your deeds.

###### v13
O God, your way _is_ distinctive. ^[Or "holy" or "set apart"]
Who _is_ a great god like _our_ God?

###### v14
You _are_ the God who works wonders; ^[Hebrew "wonder"]
you have made known your might among the peoples.

###### v15
With _your_ arm you redeemed your people,
the children of Jacob and Joseph. _Selah_

###### v16
Waters saw you, O God;
waters saw you _and_ they trembled.
Surely _the_ deeps shook.

###### v17
_The_ clouds poured out water.
_The_ skies _thundered_. ^[Literally "gave voice"]
Your arrows also _flew about_. ^[Literally "walked back and forth"]

###### v18
The sound of your thunder _was_ in the whirlwind; ^[Or "in _your chariot_ wheel"]
lightnings lit _the_ world;
the earth shook and quaked.

###### v19
Your way _was_ through the sea,
and your path ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] through many waters.
Yet your footprints were not discerned. ^[Hebrew "were not known"]

###### v20
You led your people like a flock
by the hand of Moses and Aaron.