---
aliases:
  - Psalms 73
---

[[Ps-72|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-74|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Surely God is good to Israel,
to those pure of heart.

###### v2
But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled.
My steps had nearly slipped,

###### v3
because I envied the boastful
_when_ I saw _the_ well-being ^[Or "peace" or "prosperity"] of _the_ wicked.

###### v4
For there are no pains up to their death,
and their bodies _are_ _healthy_. ^[Literally "fat"]

###### v5
They do not have _ordinary trouble_, ^[Literally "the trouble of man"]
and they are not plagued as _other_ people. ^[Hebrew "humankind"]

###### v6
Therefore pride is their necklace;
an outfit of violence covers them.

###### v7
Their eye bulges from fat. ^[A slightly different Hebrew reading might be reflected in the LXX's "their iniquity comes out of fatness"]
Imaginings overflow _their_ heart.

###### v8
They mock and speak maliciously of oppression;
they speak _as though_ from on high.

###### v9
They set their mouth against the heavens,
and their tongue roams the earth.

###### v10
Therefore his people turn there, ^[That is, toward the wicked]
and abundant waters are slurped up by them.

###### v11
And they say, "How does God know?"
and, "Does the Most High have knowledge?"

###### v12
See, these _are the_ wicked,
and they increase wealth, ever carefree.

###### v13
Surely in vain I have kept my heart pure,
and washed my hands in innocence.

###### v14
And I have been plagued all day
and rebuked _every morning_. ^[Literally "to the mornings"]

###### v15
If I had said, "I will speak thus,"
behold, I would have acted treacherously
against your children's generation.

###### v16
When I thought about _how_ to understand this,
it _was_ troubling in my eyes

###### v17
until I went into the sanctuary of God.
_Then_ I understood their fate.

###### v18
Surely you set them on slippery places.
You cause them to fall onto ruin. ^[Or "fall for deceptions"]

###### v19
How they become a desolation in a moment!
They come to a complete end by terrors.

###### v20
Like a dream upon awakening,
when _you_ wake up, O Lord,
you will despise their fleeting form. ^[Or "image"]

###### v21
When my heart was embittered
and I felt stabbed in my kidneys,

###### v22
then I was brutish and ignorant.
With you I was _like_ the beasts.

###### v23
But I _am_ continually with you;
you have hold of my right hand.

###### v24
You will guide me with your advice,
and afterward you will take me _into_ honor. ^[Or "_to_ glory"]

###### v25
Whom do I have in the heavens _except you_?
And with you I have no _other_ desire on earth.

###### v26
My flesh and heart failed,
_but_ God _is_ the _strength_ ^[Literally "rock"] of my heart and my reward forever.

###### v27
For indeed, _those_ distancing themselves from you will be ruined.
You destroy each who abandons you for harlotry.

###### v28
But as for me, the approach to God _is_ for my good.
I have set the Lord Yahweh _as_ my refuge,
in order to tell all your works.