---
aliases:
  - Psalms 74
---

[[Ps-73|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-75|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Why, O God, have you rejected _us_ forever?
_Why_ does your anger smoke
against the sheep of your pasture?

###### v2
Remember your congregation _that_ you bought long ago,
_when_ you redeemed the tribe of your inheritance.
_Remember_ _Mount Zion_ ^[Literally "the mountain of Zion"] where you have dwelt.

###### v3
Lift your steps to the perpetual ruins,
_to_ all _that the_ enemy has ruined in the sanctuary.

###### v4
Your enemies have roared in the midst of your meeting place;
they have set up their signs _for_ signs.

###### v5
They are ^[Hebrew "He is"] known _to be_ like _those who_ _wield_ ^[Literally "lift up"]
axes in a thicket of trees.

###### v6
And now ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] its ^[That is, the temple's] carved works altogether
they have smashed with axe and hammer.

###### v7
They have set fire to your sanctuary.
They have defiled to the ground,
the dwelling place for your name.

###### v8
They have said in their heart,
"We will completely ^[Hebrew "altogether"] oppress them."
They burned all the meeting places of God in the land.

###### v9
We do not see our signs,
and there is no longer a prophet.
No one with us knows how long.

###### v10
How long, O God, will _the_ adversary taunt?
Will _the_ enemy treat your name with contempt forever?

###### v11
Why do you draw back your hand, even your right hand?
_Take it_ from your bosom; ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] destroy _them_!

###### v12
But God _has been_ my king from long ago,
working salvation in the midst of the earth.

###### v13
You split open _the_ sea by your strength;
You broke _the_ heads of _the_ sea monsters in the waters.

###### v14
You crushed the heads of Leviathan;
you gave him _as_ food to _the_ desert dwelling creatures.

###### v15
You split open spring and wadi. ^[A seasonal stream that is often dry]
You dried up ever-flowing rivers.

###### v16
Yours _is the_ day, yours _is the_ night also.
You established light and _the_ sun.

###### v17
You defined ^[Or "set"] all _the_ boundaries of _the_ earth;
Summer and winter--you formed them.

###### v18
O Yahweh, remember this: _the_ enemy taunts,
and foolish people treat your name with contempt.

###### v19
Do not give to beasts the life of your dove;
do not ever forget the life of your afflicted ones.

###### v20
Have regard for the covenant,
because _the_ dark places of _the_ land are full of
_the_ haunts of violence.

###### v21
Do not let _the_ oppressed turn back humiliated;
let _the_ poor and needy praise your name.

###### v22
Rise up, O God, plead your cause;
remember the reproaching of you by _the_ foolish _all day long_. ^[Literally "all the day"]

###### v23
Do not forget the sound of your adversaries,
the roar of those rising up against you ascending continually.