---
aliases:
  - Psalms 72
---

[[Ps-71|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-73|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O God, give your judgments to _the_ king,
and your righteousness to _the_ king's son.

###### v2
May he judge your people with righteousness,
and your poor with justice.

###### v3
Let _the_ mountains yield prosperity ^[Or "peace"] for the people,
and _the_ hills in righteousness.

###### v4
May he provide justice _for the_ poor of _the_ people,
save _the_ children of _the_ needy,
and crush _the_ oppressor.

###### v5
May he live long ^[This presupposes the reading, suggested by the LXX, that might indicate that two of the Hebrew root letters have been inverted. The Hebrew reads "They will/Let them fear"] _while the sun endures_ ^[Literally "with _the_ sun"]
_as long as the moon_ ^[Literally "in the presence of the moon"] _for all generations_. ^[Literally "generation of generations"]

###### v6
May he descend like rain on mown grass,
like showers watering _the_ earth.

###### v7
May _what is_ right blossom in his days
and an abundance of peace, until _the_ moon is no more.

###### v8
And may he rule from sea up to sea,
and from _the_ River ^[That is, the Euphrates] to _the_ edges of _the_ land.

###### v9
Let _the_ desert dwellers bow down before him,
and his enemies lick the dust.

###### v10
Let the kings of Tarshish and _the_ islands bring tribute.
Let the kings of Sheba and Seba present gifts,

###### v11
and let all kings bow down to him.
Let all nations serve him.

###### v12
Indeed he will deliver _the_ needy _who is_ crying for help,
and _the_ afflicted _who_ has no helper.

###### v13
He will take pity on _the_ helpless and needy,
and _the_ lives of _the_ needy he will save.

###### v14
From oppression and from violence
he will redeem their lives,
and their blood will be precious in his eyes.

###### v15
So may he live, and may gold from Sheba be given to him,
and may prayers be offered for him continually.
May blessings be invoked for him _all day long_. ^[Literally "all the day"]

###### v16
May there be an abundance of grain in the land
_even_ on _the_ top of _the_ mountains.
May his crop ^[Or "May his descendants"] sway like the _trees of_ Lebanon,
and may _those_ from _the_ city blossom like the grass of the earth.

###### v17
May his name endure forever.
May his name increase _as long as the sun shines_, ^[Literally "_in the_ presence of the sun"]
and let them be blessed in him.
Let all nations call him blessed.

###### v18
Blessed be Yahweh God, the God of Israel,
_who_ alone does wonderful things.

###### v19
And blessed be his glorious name forever,
and may the whole earth be filled with his glory.
Amen and Amen.

###### v20
The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are completed.