---
aliases:
  - Psalms 76
---

[[Ps-75|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-77|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
God _is_ known in Judah.
His name _is_ great in Israel.

###### v2
His den ^[Or "shelter"; but the image of the lion appears in view] has been in Salem,
his lair ^[Or "refuge"] in Zion.

###### v3
There he broke _the_ flames of _the_ bow,
_the_ shield and sword and battle. _Selah_

###### v4
Radiant ^[A possible change in the Hebrew text yields, "You are feared, majestic …" a form found in vv. [[Ps-76#v8|8]](7), 13(12). This is possibly reflected in the reading of Theodotian] you _are_, majestic,
from ^[Or "more than"] _the_ mountains of prey.

###### v5
_The_ stouthearted are plundered;
they sleep their sleep,
and all _the_ able men cannot _use_ ^[Literally "find"] their hands.

###### v6
At your rebuke, O God of Jacob,
both rider ^[Hebrew "chariot," that is, charioteer] and horse slumber.

###### v7
_You, indeed, are to be feared_, ^[Literally "You, feared you _are_"]
and who can stand before you
when you _are_ angry?  ^[A slight change in the vocalization of the MT yields, "from the strength of your anger"]

###### v8
From heaven you proclaimed judgment.
_The_ earth feared and was still

###### v9
when God rose for justice,
to save all _the_ afflicted of _the_ land. _Selah_

###### v10
For the anger of humankind will praise you.
You will put on _the_ remnant of anger. ^[Hebrew "angers"]

###### v11
Make vows and fulfill them to Yahweh, your God;
let all surrounding him
bring tribute to the _one to be_ feared. ^[Hebrew "to the fear"]

###### v12
He cuts off _the_ spirit of leaders.
_He is to be_ feared by _the_ kings of _the_ earth.