---
aliases:
  - Psalms 71
---

[[Ps-70|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-72|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In you, O Yahweh, I have taken refuge;
let me never be put to shame.

###### v2
In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me;
incline your ear to me and save me.

###### v3
Be for me a rock of refuge to resort to always;
you have ordained ^[Or "commanded"] to save me,
because you _are_ my rock and my fortress.

###### v4
My God, rescue me from _the_ hand of _the_ wicked,
from _the_ _grasp_ ^[Literally "palm"] of _the_ evildoer and _the_ oppressor,

###### v5
because you _are_ my hope,
O Lord Yahweh, my confidence from my youth.

###### v6
Upon you I have leaned _from birth_. ^[Literally "from the belly"]
_It was_ you who _took_ ^[Literally "cut," that is, the umbilical cord] me from the womb of my mother.
My praise _is_ of you continually.

###### v7
I have become a wonder to many,
but you _are_ my strong refuge.

###### v8
My mouth is filled with your praise,
with your glory all the day.

###### v9
Do not cast me away in the time of old age;
when my strength fails do not abandon me.

###### v10
For my enemies talk concerning me,
and those who watch for my life conspire together,

###### v11
saying, "His God has abandoned him.
Pursue and seize him, because there is no deliverer."

###### v12
O God, do not be far from me.
My God, hurry to help me.

###### v13
Let them be ashamed; let them perish
who are _my adversaries_. ^[Literally "adversaries of my soul"]
Let _them_ wrap themselves with scorn and disgrace
who seek my harm.

###### v14
But as for me, I will hope continually
and increase your praise.

###### v15
My mouth will tell of your righteousness,
your salvation _all day long_, ^[Literally "all the day"]
though I do not know _the full_ sum _of them_.

###### v16
I will come in _to tell_ the mighty deeds of Lord Yahweh.
I will _make known_ ^[Literally "bring to remembrance"] your righteousness, yours only.

###### v17
O God, you have taught me from my youth,
and up to now I have proclaimed your wonderful deeds.

###### v18
And even when _I am_ old and gray,
O God, do not abandon me
until I proclaim your _strength_ ^[Literally "arm"] to _this_ generation,
your power to every _one that_ comes _after_.

###### v19
And your righteousness, O God, _is_ to _the_ height _of heaven_.
You who have done great things,
O God, who _is_ like you?

###### v20
You who have caused me ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] to see many troubles and evils,
you will again revive me. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)]
And from the depths of the earth
you will again bring me up.

###### v21
You will increase my greatness,
and you will comfort me all around. ^[A slightly different vocalization yields, "… comfort me again"; compare the LXX.]

###### v22
On my part, I will praise you with a stringed instrument,
_and_ your faithfulness, O my God.
I will sing praises to you with a lyre,
O Holy One of Israel.

###### v23
My lips will sing for joy when I sing praises to you,
and my soul, which you have redeemed.

###### v24
My tongue also
will speak of your righteousness all the day,
because they have been put to shame, because they have been humiliated
who seek my harm.