---
aliases:
  - Psalms 79
---

[[Ps-78|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-80|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O God, _the_ nations have entered your inheritance;
they have defiled your holy temple;
they have reduced Jerusalem to ruins.

###### v2
They have given the bodies of your servants
as food for the birds of the heavens,
the flesh of your faithful to _the_ beasts of _the_ earth.

###### v3
They have poured out their blood like water
all around Jerusalem,
and there was none to bury _them_.

###### v4
We have become a taunt to our neighbors,
a derision and a scorn to those around us.

###### v5
How long, O Yahweh? Will you be angry forever?
Will your jealousy burn like fire?

###### v6
Pour out your anger on the nations
that do not know you,
and on _the_ kingdoms
that do not call on your name,

###### v7
because they ^[Hebrew "he"] have devoured Jacob
and have laid waste his habitation.

###### v8
Do not remember against us former iniquities;
let your mercies meet us quickly
because we are brought very low.

###### v9
Help us, O God of our salvation,
for the glory of your name;
and deliver us and forgive ^[Hebrew "make atonement for"] our sins
for the sake of your name.

###### v10
Why should the nations say,
"Where _is_ their God?"
Let it ^[That is, God's name] be known among the nations before our eyes,
_by_ the avenging of the blood of your servants
that was poured out.

###### v11
Let the groaning of the prisoner come before you.
According to the greatness of your _power_, ^[Literally "arm"]
spare ^[Or "leave a remnant of"] _the_ children _appointed to_ death.

###### v12
And return to our neighbors sevenfold _upon them_ ^[Hebrew "into their bosom"]
their taunts _with_ which they taunted you, O Lord.

###### v13
Then we, your people and the flock of your pasture,
we will give thanks to you forever.
_Generation after generation_ ^[Literally "to a generation and a generation"]
we will tell of your praise.