---
aliases:
  - Psalms 78
---

[[Ps-77|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-79|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Listen, O my people, to my teaching.
Incline your ears to the words of my mouth.

###### v2
I will offer ^[Hebrew "open"] a parable _with_ my mouth.
I will pour out riddles from long ago,

###### v3
that we have heard and known,
and our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] have told us.

###### v4
We will not hide _them_ from their children, ^[Or "descendants"]
telling the next generation the praises of Yahweh,
and his power and his wonders that he has done.

###### v5
For he established a testimony in Jacob,
and appointed a law ^[Hebrew _torah_] in Israel,
which he commanded our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"]
to teach to their children,

###### v6
so that _the_ next generation might know--
children _yet to_ be born--
_that_ they might rise up and tell their children,

###### v7
that they might set their confidence in God,
and not forget the deeds of God,
but keep his commandments,

###### v8
and not be like their ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"]
a stubborn and rebellious generation,
a generation _that_ did not make ready its heart,
whose spirit was not faithful _to_ God.

###### v9
The sons of Ephraim, _armed with archers_, ^[Literally "armed with shooters of the bow"]
turned back on _the_ day of battle.

###### v10
They did not keep the covenant of God
and refused to go in his law. ^[Hebrew _torah_]

###### v11
They also forgot his deeds,
and his wonders that he had shown them.

###### v12
In front of their ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] he did a wonder,
in the land of Egypt, _in_ the region of Zoan.

###### v13
He split the sea and caused them to go over,
and he caused waters to stand like a heap.

###### v14
And he led them with the cloud by day,
and all night with a fiery light.

###### v15
He caused rocks to split in the wilderness
and provided drink abundantly as _from the_ depths.

###### v16
And he brought streams out of _the_ rock
and caused water to flow down like rivers.

###### v17
But they sinned still further against him
by rebelling _against the_ Most High in the desert.

###### v18
And they tested God in their heart
_by_ asking food _for their craving_. ^[Literally "for their soul"]

###### v19
And they spoke against God.
They said, "Is God able
to prepare a table in the wilderness?

###### v20
Yes, he struck _the_ rock and water flowed
and streams gushed out,
_but_ can he also give food
or provide meat for his people?"

###### v21
Therefore Yahweh heard
and he was very angry,
and a fire was kindled against Jacob,
and _his_ anger also rose up against Israel,

###### v22
because they did not believe God,
and they did not trust his salvation.

###### v23
Nevertheless, he commanded _the_ skies above
and opened _the_ doors of heaven,

###### v24
and rained down on them manna to eat
and gave them the grain of heaven.

###### v25
Humankind ate _the_ bread of _angels_. ^[Literally "mighty ones"]
He sent them food _enough_ to be satisfied.

###### v26
He caused _the_ east wind to blow in the heavens
and drove along _the_ south wind by his strength.

###### v27
Then he rained meat on them like dust,
even winged birds ^[Hebrew "bird"] like _the_ sand of _the_ seas.

###### v28
He caused _them_ to fall in the midst of his camp,
all around his dwellings.

###### v29
So they ate and were well filled,
and he brought about _what_ they craved.

###### v30
They had not yet turned aside from their craving,
_while_ their food _was_ still in their mouth,

###### v31
the anger of God rose against them,
and he killed some of the stoutest of them,
even the young men of Israel he caused to bow down _in death_.

###### v32
In spite of all this they sinned further
and did not believe his wonders.

###### v33
And he consumed their days with futility  ^[Or "he ended their days like a breath"]
their years with terror. ^[Or "and their years suddenly"]

###### v34
When he killed _some of_ them, then they sought him,
and repented and earnestly sought God.

###### v35
And they remembered that God _was_ their rock,
and God Most High their redeemer.

###### v36
But they enticed him with their mouth
and lied to him with their tongue.

###### v37
For their heart was not steadfast with him,
nor were they faithful to his covenant.

###### v38
But he _was_ compassionate; he pardoned ^[Or "covered," or "atoned for"] _their_ guilt
and did not destroy _them_.
And many _times_ he turned back his anger
and did not stir up all his wrath,

###### v39
for he remembered that they _were_ flesh,
a passing wind that does not return.

###### v40
How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness
and vexed him in _the_ wasteland!

###### v41
So they again tested God
and distressed ^[Or perhaps, "pressed to the limit"] the Holy One of Israel.

###### v42
And they did not remember his _power_ ^[Literally "hand"]
_when_ ^[Literally "the day that"] he redeemed them from the enemy,

###### v43
how he performed ^[Hebrew "set"] his signs in Egypt
and his wonders in the region of Zoan,

###### v44
when he turned their rivers ^[Normally the word for the Nile, with the plural here suggesting perhaps it and its canals] to blood
so they could not drink _from_ their streams.

###### v45
He sent among them flies that devoured them
and frogs that destroyed them.

###### v46
And he gave their crop to the locusts
and their labor to the locust. ^[Two different words translated "locusts"]

###### v47
He destroyed their vines with hail
and their sycamore trees with sleet. ^[The word for "sleet" is only used here, and the translation is a guess based on context]

###### v48
He also handed their cattle over to the hail
and their livestock to the lightning bolts.

###### v49
He sent against them his fierce anger,
rage and indignation and trouble,
a band of _destroying_ ^[Literally "evil"] angels.

###### v50
He cleared a path for his anger.
He did not spare them ^[Hebrew "their soul"] from death
but handed their life over to the plague.

###### v51
And he struck down all _the_ firstborn in Egypt,
_the_ first of _their_ virility in the tents of Ham.

###### v52
Then he led out his people like sheep
and guided them like a herd in the wilderness.

###### v53
And he led them safely and they were not afraid,
but the sea covered their enemies.

###### v54
So he brought them to his holy territory, ^[Hebrew "border"]
this mountain his right hand acquired. ^[Or "had created"]

###### v55
And he drove out nations before them
and allocated them for an inheritance by _boundary_ line,
and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents.

###### v56
But they tested and rebelled against God Most High
and did not keep his statutes.

###### v57
And they turned and were treacherous like their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]
They twisted like a crooked ^[Or "deceitful"] bow.

###### v58
For they provoked him to anger with their high places,
and made him jealous with their images.

###### v59
God heard and he was very angry
and rejected Israel utterly.

###### v60
So he abandoned the dwelling place at Shiloh,
_the_ tent he had placed among humankind.

###### v61
And he gave his strength into captivity
and his splendor into _the_ hand of _the_ enemy.

###### v62
He also handed his people over to the sword,
and he was very angry with his inheritance.

###### v63
Fire devoured his young men,
and his young women ^[Or "virgins"] were not praised.

###### v64
His priests fell by the sword,
and his widows did not weep.

###### v65
Then the Lord awoke like _one who had been_ asleep,
_awoke_ like a warrior who had been drunk with wine. ^[Or "like a warrior shouting because of wine"]

###### v66
And he beat back his enemies;
he gave them over to perpetual scorn.

###### v67
And he rejected the tent of Joseph,
and did not chose the tribe of Ephraim,

###### v68
but chose the tribe of Judah,
_Mount Zion_ ^[Literally "the mountain of Zion"] that he loved.

###### v69
And he built his sanctuary like _the_ heights,
like _the_ earth that he established forever.

###### v70
And he chose David his servant
and took him from _the_ sheepfolds.

###### v71
He brought him from following nursing ewes
to shepherd Jacob, his people,
and Israel, his inheritance.

###### v72
And he shepherded them according to the integrity of his heart,
and led them by the skillfulness of his hands.