---
aliases:
  - Psalms 88
---

[[Ps-87|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-89|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, God of my salvation,
I cry out by day _and_ through the night before you.

###### v2
Let my prayer come before you;
incline your ear to my cry.

###### v3
For my soul is full with troubles,
and my life approaches Sheol.

###### v4
I am reckoned with _those_ descending to _the_ pit.
I am like a man ^[The Hebrew suggests a strong, vigorous man] without strength, ^[Or "without help"]

###### v5
set free ^[Or "forsaken"] among the dead,
like _the_ slain lying in _the_ grave,
whom you no longer remember,
even those cut off from your hand.

###### v6
You have set me in _the_ pit below,
in dark places, in _the_ depths.

###### v7
Your wrath presses upon me,
and you afflict _me with_ all your waves. _Selah_

###### v8
You have removed my acquaintances far from me.
You have made me detestable ^[Hebrew "an abomination"] to them.
_I am_ confined and cannot go out.

###### v9
My eye languishes from misery.
I call on you, O Yahweh, every day;
I spread out my hands ^[Hebrew "palms"] to you.

###### v10
Do you work wonders ^[Hebrew "wonder"] for the dead?
Or do _the_ departed spirits ^[Hebrew _rephaim_, sometimes translated "shades"; the weakened state of those who have died] rise up _to_ praise you? _Selah_

###### v11
Is your loyal love told in the grave,
_or_ your faithfulness in the underworld? ^[Hebrew _abaddon_, the place of destruction]

###### v12
Are your wonders ^[Hebrew "wonder"] known in the darkness,
_or_ your righteousness ^[Or "deed of justice"] in _the_ land of forgetfulness?

###### v13
But as for me, I cry for help to you, O Yahweh,
and in the morning my prayer comes before you.

###### v14
Why do you reject my soul, O Yahweh?
_Why_ do you hide your face from me?

###### v15
I _am_ afflicted and perishing from _my_ youth.
I bear your terrors. I am distraught. ^[Hebrew meaning uncertain]

###### v16
Your burning anger has passed over me;
your sudden fears have destroyed me.

###### v17
They surround me like water all the day;
they circle about me altogether.

###### v18
You have removed loved one and friend far from me,
my acquaintances _far from my_ darkness.