---
aliases:
  - Psalms 80
---

[[Ps-79|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-81|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Give ear, O shepherd of Israel,
_who_ leads Joseph like a flock.
Shine forth, _you who_ sits _enthroned above_ the cherubim.

###### v2
Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh,
stir up your power
and come for our salvation.

###### v3
O God, restore us,
and cause your face to shine that we may be saved.

###### v4
O Yahweh God _of_ hosts,
_how long will you be angry_ ^[Literally "until when _your anger_ smoke"]
against the prayer of your people?

###### v5
You have fed them _the_ bread of tears;
you have given them tears to drink in full measure. ^[The Hebrew "threefold" or "a third of a measure" is difficult]

###### v6
You have made us _an object of_ strife to our neighbors,
and our enemies mock among themselves.

###### v7
O God _of_ hosts, restore us
and cause your face to shine that we may be saved.

###### v8
You uprooted a vine from Egypt;
you drove out _the_ nations and planted it.

###### v9
You prepared _a place_ before it,
and _it took deep root_ ^[Literally "its root rooted"] and filled _the_ land.

###### v10
_The_ mountains were covered with its shade,
and _the_ mighty cedars _with_ its boughs.

###### v11
It spread its branches to _the_ sea
and its shoots to _the_ river.

###### v12
Why have you broken down its walls,
so that all _who_ pass on _the_ road pluck _fruit from_ it?

###### v13
Swine from the forests devour ^[Hebrew "devours"] it
and creatures of _the_ field feed on it.

###### v14
Please return, O God _of_ hosts.
Observe from heaven and see,
and pay attention to this vine,

###### v15
even_the_ stalk that your right hand planted,
and concerning _the_ shoot ^[Hebrew "son"] you strengthened for yourself.

###### v16
_It is_ burned with fire, cut down.
They perish at the rebuke of your face.

###### v17
Let your hand be on the man of your right hand,
on _the_ son of humankind _whom_ you made strong for yourself.

###### v18
Then we will not turn back from you.
Restore us to life, and we will proclaim your name.

###### v19
O Yahweh God _of_ hosts, restore us;
cause your face to shine that we may be saved.