---
aliases:
  - Psalms 83
---

[[Ps-82|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-84|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O God, do not rest _silently_.
Do not keep silent or be still, O God.

###### v2
For look, your enemies roar,
and those who hate you have lifted _their_ head.

###### v3
They devise cunning schemes ^[Hebrew "scheme"] against your people,
and consult together against your protected ones. ^[Or "your treasured ones"]

###### v4
They say, "Come, let us annihilate them from _being_ a nation,
so that the name of Israel will be remembered no more."

###### v5
For they have consulted together _with a unified purpose_. ^[Literally "with a heart together"]
They have made a covenant against you:

###### v6
the tents of Edom and _the_ Ishmaelites,
Moab and _the_ Hagrites,

###### v7
Gebal and Ammon and Amalek,
Philistia, with the inhabitants of Tyre.

###### v8
Assyria also has joined with them.
They _provide help_ ^[Literally "they have become an arm for"] to the children of Lot. _Selah_

###### v9
Do to them as _you did with_ Midian,
as _with_ Sisera, as _with_ Jabin at the wadi of Kishon.

###### v10
They were destroyed at En-dor;
they became dung for the ground.

###### v11
Make their leaders like Oreb and Zeeb,
and all their chiefs like Zebah and Zalmunna,

###### v12
who said, "Let us take _as_ our possession
the pastures of God."

###### v13
O my God, make them like the tumbleweed,
like the chaff before wind.

###### v14
As fire burns a forest,
and as a flame sets afire mountains,

###### v15
so pursue them with your tempest
and terrify them with your storm.

###### v16
Fill their faces with shame,
that they may seek your name, O Yahweh.

###### v17
Let them be ashamed and terrified forever,
and let them be humiliated and perish

###### v18
that they may know that you,
_whose_ name _is_ Yahweh, you alone,
_are the_ Most High over the whole earth.