---
aliases:
  - Psalms 86
---

[[Ps-85|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-87|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Incline, O Yahweh, your ear _and_ answer me,
because I _am_ poor and needy.

###### v2
Watch over my life because I _am_ faithful.
You _are_ my God; save your servant.
_I am_ the one who trusts you.

###### v3
Be gracious to me, O Lord,
because I call to you _all day long_. ^[Literally "all the day"]

###### v4
Make glad the soul of your servant,
because _I desire you_, ^[Literally "I lift up my soul to you"] O Lord.

###### v5
For you, O Lord, _are_ good and forgiving,
and abundant in loyal love ^[Hebrew "and great with respect to loyal love"] for all who call to you.

###### v6
Heed, O Yahweh, my prayer,
and attend to the voice of my supplications.

###### v7
In the day of my trouble I call to you,
because you answer me.

###### v8
There is none like you among the gods, O Lord,
and there are no works like yours.

###### v9
All _the_ nations that you have made will come
and bow down ^[Or "worship"] before you, O Lord,
and glorify your name.

###### v10
For you _are_ great and doing wondrous things;
you alone _are_ God.

###### v11
Teach me, O Yahweh, your way,
_that_ I may walk in your truth.
Unite my heart ^[That is, give singleness of heart] to fear your name.

###### v12
I will give you thanks, O Lord my God, with all my heart,
and glorify your name forever,

###### v13
because your loyal love _is_ great toward me,
and you will have delivered my life from Sheol ^[The nether world, the place of departed spirits.] below.

###### v14
O God, arrogant men have risen up against me,
even a gang of ruthless men seek my life,
but they do not set you before them. ^[That is, they do not factor God into their actions]

###### v15
But you, O Lord, _are_ a compassionate and gracious God,
_slow to anger_ ^[Literally "long of nostrils"] and abundant in loyal love and faithfulness.

###### v16
Turn to me and be gracious to me.
Give your strength to your servant,
and grant victory to the son ^[Or "Save the son"] of your maidservant.

###### v17
Do a sign _that_ benefits me,
that those who hate me may see and be put to shame,
because you, O Yahweh, have helped me and comforted me.