---
aliases:
  - Psalms 89
---

[[Ps-88|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-90|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I will sing forever of Yahweh's acts of loyal love.
_From generation to generation_ ^[Literally "To a generation and a generation"]
I will make known your faithfulness with my mouth.

###### v2
For I say, "Forever _your_ loyal love is built up.
_The_ heavens you have established _with_ your faithfulness in them."

###### v3
"I made a covenant with my chosen one;
I swore _an oath_ to David my servant:

###### v4
'I will establish your descendants forever,
and I will build up your throne _from generation to generation_.'" ^[Literally "To a generation and a generation"] _Selah_

###### v5
And _so the_ heavens will praise your wonderful deed, O Yahweh,
even your faithfulness, in _the_ assembly of _the_ holy ones.

###### v6
For who in the sky ^[Hebrew singular collective "clouds"] is equal to Yahweh?
_Who is_ like Yahweh among the sons of God,

###### v7
a God feared greatly in the council of _the_ holy ones,
and awesome above all surrounding him?

###### v8
O Yahweh God _of_ hosts,
who _is_ mighty like you, O Yah,
with ^[Hebrew "and"] your faithfulness surrounding you?

###### v9
You are ruling the surging of the sea.
When its waves rise, _you yourself still_ ^[Literally "you, you calm"] them.

###### v10
_You yourself crushed_ ^[Literally "You, you crushed"] Rahab like one _who is_ slain;
you scattered your enemies with your strong arm.

###### v11
_The_ heavens are yours, _the_ earth yours as well,
_the_ world with its fullness, _because_ you founded them.

###### v12
North and south, you created them;
Tabor and Hermon shout joyfully over your name.

###### v13
You have a mighty arm;
Your hand is strong; your right hand reaches high.

###### v14
Righteousness and justice _are_ the foundation of your throne.
Loyal love and faithfulness ^[Or "truth"] come before your face. ^[That is, enjoy continual access]

###### v15
Blessed _are_ the people who know _the_ joyful shout;
O Yahweh, they walk about in the light of your countenance.

###### v16
In your name they rejoice all the day,
and in your righteousness they rise up.

###### v17
For you _are_ the glory of their strength,
and by your favor our horn rises up, ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_). The _Kethib_ reads "you exalt our horn"]

###### v18
because our shield belongs to Yahweh, ^[Or "Yahweh _is_ our shield."]
and our king to the Holy One of Israel. ^[Or "The Holy One of Israel _is_ our king."]

###### v19
Formerly you spoke in a vision
to your faithful ones, and said,
"I have bestowed help on a mighty man;
I have exalted one chosen from _the_ people.

###### v20
I have found David, my servant.
With my holy oil I have anointed him,

###### v21
with whom my hand will be steadfast.
Surely my arm will strengthen him.

###### v22
_The_ enemy will not deceive him,
and no _evil man_ ^[Literally "a son of wickedness"] will afflict him.

###### v23
But I will crush his adversaries before him,
and I will strike those who hate him.

###### v24
And _so_ my faithfulness
and my loyal love _will be_ with him,
and in my name his horn will rise up.

###### v25
And I will set his hand on the sea
and his right hand on the rivers.

###### v26
He will call out _to_ me, 'You _are_ my Father,
my God, and the rock of my salvation.'

###### v27
I will also make him _the_ firstborn,
_the_ highest of _the_ kings of _the_ earth.

###### v28
Forever I will keep my loyal love for him,
and my covenant _will be_ reliable for him.

###### v29
I will also establish his offspring forever,
and his throne as _the_ days of _the_ heavens.

###### v30
If his sons forsake my law
and do not walk in my judgments,

###### v31
if they defile ^[Hebrew "profane; treat as common"] my statutes
and do not keep my commandments,

###### v32
then I will punish their transgression with _a_ rod,
and their guilt with wounds.

###### v33
But I will not break off my loyal love from him,
and I will not be false against my faithfulness.

###### v34
I will not defile ^[Hebrew "profane; treat as common"] my covenant,
or alter what proceeded from my lips.

###### v35
Once ^[Hebrew "One"] I have sworn by my holiness,
'I will surely not lie to David,

###### v36
His offspring will endure ^[Hebrew "be"] forever,
and his throne as the sun before me.

###### v37
Like _the_ moon it will be steadfast forever,
and _like_ an enduring witness in the sky.'" _Selah_

###### v38
But you have spurned and rejected;
you are very angry with your anointed one.

###### v39
You have repudiated the covenant with your servant;
you have defiled ^[Hebrew "profane; treat as common"] his crown in ^[Hebrew "to"] the dirt.

###### v40
You have broken down all his walls;
you have made his fortifications a ruin.

###### v41
All passing along _the_ road plunder him;
he has become a taunt to his neighbors.

###### v42
You have raised the right hand ^[That is, given them victory] of his adversaries.
You have made all his enemies rejoice.

###### v43
You have also turned back the edge of his sword
and have not helped him stand _his ground_ in the battle.

###### v44
You have made his splendor to cease,
and cast his throne to the ground.

###### v45
You have cut short the days of his youth;
you have covered him with shame. _Selah_

###### v46
How long, O Yahweh? Will you hide yourself forever?
Will your wrath burn like fire _forever_?

###### v47
Remember what my lifespan _is_.
_Remember_ for what vanity
you have created all _the_ children of humankind.

###### v48
What man can live _on_ and not see death?
Can he deliver his life from the _power_ ^[Literally "hand""] of Sheol? _Selah_

###### v49
Where _are_ your former acts of loyal love, O Lord,
_that_ you swore to David by your faithfulness?

###### v50
Remember, O Lord the taunting of your servants,
_how_ I bear in my bosom _the taunts of_ all _the_ many peoples,

###### v51
_by_ which your enemies taunt, O Yahweh,
_by_ which they taunt the steps of your anointed one.

###### v52
Blessed be Yahweh forever.
Amen and Amen.