---
aliases:
  - Psalms 81
---

[[Ps-80|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-82|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Shout out to God our strength;
shout joyfully to the God of Jacob.

###### v2
Lift up a song and strike ^[Hebrew "give"] _the_ tambourine,
_the_ pleasant lyre, together with _the_ harp.

###### v3
Blow _the_ horn at new moon,
at full moon, for our feast day,

###### v4
because it _is_ a statute for Israel,
an ordinance of the God of Jacob.

###### v5
He made it a statute ^[Hebrew "testimony" or "witness"] in Joseph
when he went out against the land of Egypt,
_where_ I heard a language I did not know. ^[The meaning of this line is uncertain. The above is based on perhaps a similar thought in [[Ps-114#v1|Psa 114:1]]]

###### v6
"I removed his shoulder from a burden.
His hands were freed from _the_ basket.

###### v7
In this ^[Hebrew "the"] trouble you called, and I rescued you.
Within _the_ secret place of thunder I answered you;
I tested you at the waters of Meribah. _Selah_

###### v8
Hear, O my people, and I will admonish you;
O Israel, if you would _but_ listen to me.

###### v9
There shall be no strange god among you,
and you shall not bow down to a foreign god.

###### v10
I _am_ Yahweh your God,
who brought you up from the land of Egypt.
Open wide your mouth and I will fill it.

###### v11
But my people did not listen to my voice,
and Israel did not yield to me.

###### v12
So I let them ^[Hebrew "him"] go in the stubbornness of their heart;
they walked in their counsels.

###### v13
Oh that my people would listen to me;
_that_ Israel would walk in my ways.

###### v14
I would subdue their enemies quickly,
and turn my hand against their adversaries.

###### v15
Those who hate Yahweh would cringe before him,
and their fate ^[Hebrew "time"] would be forever.

###### v16
But he would feed him ^[That is, Israel] from _the_ choicest wheat, ^[Hebrew "_the_ fat of wheat"]
and I would satisfy you with honey from a rock."