---
aliases:
  - Psalms 84
---

[[Ps-83|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-85|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
How lovely _are_ your dwelling places,
O Yahweh of hosts!

###### v2
My soul longs and even fails
for the courtyards of Yahweh.
My heart and flesh sing for joy
to the living God.

###### v3
Even a bird finds a home, and a swallow a nest for herself,
where she may lay her young,
near your altars, O Yahweh _of_ hosts,
my king and my God.

###### v4
Blessed _are_ those who dwell in your house; ^[Or "temple"]
they can ever praise you. _Selah_

###### v5
Blessed _is the_ man whose strength _is_ in you;
in their heart _are the_ highways _to Zion_.

###### v6
Passing through the Valley of Baca, ^[Or "Valley of Weeping"]
they make it a spring.
The early rain covers _it with_ blessings ^[A change in vocalization of the Hebrew yields "_it with_ pools"] as well.

###### v7
They go from strength to strength,
_until each_ appears before God in Zion. ^[Or "the God of gods will be seen in Zion"]

###### v8
O Yahweh, God of hosts, hear my prayer;
give ear, O God of Jacob. _Selah_

###### v9
Look at our shield, O God,
and have regard for the face of your anointed one.

###### v10
Because better _is_ a day in your courtyards
than a thousand _elsewhere_.
I would rather be at the threshold of the house ^[Or "temple"] of my God
than to dwell in _the_ tents of wickedness.

###### v11
Because Yahweh God _is_ a sun and a shield;
Yahweh gives grace and honor.
He does not withhold good from those who walk blamelessly.

###### v12
O Yahweh _of_ hosts,
blessed _is the_ man who trusts you.