---
aliases:
  - Psalms 96
---

[[Ps-95|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-97|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Sing to ^[Or "concerning"] Yahweh a new song;
sing to ^[Or "concerning"] Yahweh, all the earth.

###### v2
Sing to ^[Or "concerning"] Yahweh; bless his name.
Announce ^[Or "bring good news concerning"] his salvation from day to day.

###### v3
Tell his glory among the nations,
his marvelous works among all the peoples.

###### v4
For Yahweh _is_ great and very worthy of praise;
he _is to be_ feared above all gods.

###### v5
For all the gods of the peoples _are_ idols, ^[This word for idols suggests something worthless or insignificant]
but Yahweh made _the_ heavens.

###### v6
Splendor and majesty _are_ before him;
strength and beauty _are_ in his sanctuary.

###### v7
Ascribe to Yahweh, you families of _the_ peoples,
ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength.

###### v8
Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due his name;
bring an offering and come into his courts.

###### v9
Worship Yahweh in holy array;
tremble before him, all the earth.

###### v10
Say among the nations, "Yahweh is king!
Yes, _the_ world is established _so that_ it will not be moved.
He will judge _the_ peoples fairly."

###### v11
Let the heavens be glad and the earth rejoice.
Let the sea with ^[Hebrew "and"] its fullness roar.

###### v12
Let _the_ field with ^[Hebrew "and"] all that _is_ in it exult.
Then all _the_ trees of _the_ forests will sing for joy

###### v13
before Yahweh, for he is coming;
for he is coming to judge the earth.
He will judge _the_ world with righteousness,
and _the_ peoples with his faithfulness.