---
aliases:
  - Psalms 90
---

[[Ps-89|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-91|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Lord, you have been our help ^[Or "dwelling place"] _in all generations_. ^[Literally "in a generation and a generation"]

###### v2
Before _the_ mountains were born
and you brought forth _the_ earth and _the_ world,
even from everlasting to everlasting, you _are_ God.

###### v3
You return man to _the_ dust,
_saying_, ^[Literally "and you say"] "Return, O sons of man."

###### v4
For a thousand years in your eyes
_are_ like yesterday when it passes,
or _like_ a watch in the night.

###### v5
You sweep them away _like a flood_.
They fall asleep. ^[The interpretation of 5a is difficult]
In the morning _they are_ like grass _that_ sprouts anew.

###### v6
In the morning it blossoms and sprouts anew;
by evening it withers and dries up.

###### v7
For we are brought to an end by your anger,
and we hasten _off_ ^[Or "we are terrified"] by your wrath.

###### v8
You have put our iniquities before you,
our hidden _sins_ into the light of your countenance.

###### v9
For all of our days dwindle away in your rage;
we complete our years like a sigh.

###### v10
As for the days of our years, within them _are_ seventy years
or if by strength eighty years, and their pride ^[Or "span"] _is_ trouble and disaster,
for it passes quickly and we fly _away_.

###### v11
Who knows the strength of your anger,
and your rage consistent with ^[Hebrew "according to"] _the_ fear due you?

###### v12
So teach _us_ to number our days
that we may gain a heart of wisdom.

###### v13
Return, ^[Or "Turn back _your wrath_"] O Yahweh. How long?
And have compassion on ^[Or "change your mind concerning"] your servants.

###### v14
Satisfy us in the morning with your loyal love,
that we may sing for joy and be glad all our days.

###### v15
Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us,
_for as many_ years _as_ we have seen calamity.

###### v16
Let your work be visible to your servants,
and your majesty to their children.

###### v17
And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us,
and establish for us the work of our hands,
yes, the work of our hands, establish it.