---
aliases:
  - Psalms 91
---

[[Ps-90|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-92|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_One who_ lives in the secret place ^[Or "shelter"] of the Most High
will lodge in the shadow of Shaddai. ^[Often translated "the Almighty," this is perhaps better understood as "_God of the_ Mountain"]

###### v2
I will say to Yahweh, "_You are_ my refuge and my fortress,
my God _in whom_ I trust."

###### v3
For he will deliver ^[Hebrew "he, he will deliver" is perhaps emphatic, "He will certainly deliver"] you from _the_ snare of _the_ fowler,
from _the_ plague of destruction.

###### v4
With his feathers he will cover you,
and under his wings you can take refuge.
His faithfulness _will be_ a shield and a buckler. ^[That is, a small, round shield, or perhaps a surrounding bulwark]

###### v5
You need not fear _the_ terror of _the_ night,
_or the_ arrow _that_ flies by day,

###### v6
_or the_ plague _that_ spreads in the darkness,
_or the_ destruction _that_ devastates at noon.

###### v7
A thousand may fall at your side,
and ten thousand at your right _hand_,
_but_ it will not come near you.

###### v8
You will only look with your eyes,
and see _the_ punishment of _the_ wicked.

###### v9
For you, O Yahweh, _are_ my refuge.
You have made the Most High your dwelling place. ^[This is the most straightforward translation of the Hebrew, though the "you" of each line would refer to a different person. A more unusual rendering would be "Because Yahweh, my refuge, even the Most High, you have made your dwelling place …"]

###### v10
No harm will befall you,
and no plague will come near your tent.

###### v11
For he will command his angels concerning you,
to watch over you in all your ways.

###### v12
In _their_ hands they will bear you up,
lest you strike your foot against a stone.

###### v13
You will tread on lion and viper;
you will trample young lion and serpent.

###### v14
Because he loves me, therefore I will deliver him;
I will protect ^[The sense is that of making something inaccessibly high, like a fortress] him because he knows my name.

###### v15
He will call upon me and I will answer him;
I _will be_ with him in trouble;
I will rescue and honor him.

###### v16
_With_ _long life_ ^[Literally "a length of days"] I will satisfy him,
and show him my salvation.