---
aliases:
  - Psalms 94
---

[[Ps-93|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-95|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
O Yahweh, God of vengeance,
God of vengeance, shine forth.

###### v2
Rise up, O Judge of the earth.
Repay upon the proud what is _their_ rightful due.

###### v3
How long _will the_ wicked, O Yahweh,
how long will _the_ wicked exult?

###### v4
_They gush words_ ^[Literally "They gush, they speak," which is probably a hendiadys] unrestrained.
All _the_ evildoers boast.

###### v5
They crush your people, O Yahweh;
they oppress your inheritance.

###### v6
They kill widow and stranger,
and they murder orphans,

###### v7
while ^[Hebrew "and"] they say, "Yah ^[A shortened form of "Yahweh"] does not see,"
and "The God of Jacob does not pay attention."

###### v8
You pay attention, O brutes among the people.
And _you_ fools, when you will show insight?

###### v9
Will _the_ one who planted _the_ ear not hear?
Will _the_ one who formed _the_ eye not see?

###### v10
Will _the_ one who instructs nations not rebuke,
the one who teaches humankind knowledge?

###### v11
Yahweh knows _the_ thoughts of humankind,
that _they _are_ to no purpose_. ^[Literally "they _are_ a breath" or "a vanity"]

###### v12
Blessed _is_ the man, O Yah, whom you instruct
and teach from your law,

###### v13
to give him rest from days of trouble,
until a pit is dug for the wicked.

###### v14
For Yahweh will not abandon his people,
nor forsake his inheritance.

###### v15
For judgment will return to righteousness, ^[That is, the court system will operate correctly]
and all the upright in heart _will follow_ after it.

###### v16
Who rose up for me against _the_ wicked?
Who stood up for me against _the_ workers of iniquity?

###### v17
If Yahweh had not been my help,
my soul would soon have dwelt in silence.

###### v18
When I thought, ^[Hebrew "If/When I said," that is, said to myself] "My foot is slipping,"
your loyal love, O Yahweh, supported me.

###### v19
When my troubled thoughts were many _within me_, ^[Literally "in my inward parts"]
your consolations cheered my soul.

###### v20
Can there be allied with you a throne of destruction,
one that forms trouble based on statute?

###### v21
They band together against _the_ life of _the_ righteous,
and declare _the_ blameless guilty of blood. ^[Or "condemn innocent blood"]

###### v22
But Yahweh has become my _high_ stronghold,
and my God _has become_ my rock of refuge.

###### v23
And he will repay on them their iniquity,
and by ^[Or "in"] their evil he will destroy them.
Yahweh our God will destroy them.