---
aliases:
  - Psalms 92
---

[[Ps-91|Previous Chapter]] | [[Ps-93|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_It is_ good to give thanks to Yahweh,
and to sing praise concerning your name, O Most High;

###### v2
to declare in the morning your loyal love
and your faithfulness in the night,

###### v3
on _the_ ten _string_, and on _the_ harp,
with a melody on _the_ lyre.

###### v4
For you, O Yahweh, have made me glad by your work;
by the deeds of your hands I sing for joy.

###### v5
How great are your deeds, O Yahweh;
_how_ very deep are your thoughts.

###### v6
_The_ brutish man does not know,
and _the_ fool cannot understand this.

###### v7
When the wicked flourish like grass
and all _the_ workers of evil blossom,
_it is_ so they can be destroyed forever.

###### v8
But you _are_ on high forever, O Yahweh.

###### v9
For behold, your enemies, O Yahweh,
for behold, your enemies will perish.
All _the_ workers of evil will be scattered.

###### v10
But you have exalted my horn like _that of_ a wild ox;
you have anointed me ^[The Hebrew's "_that_ I have moistened with fresh oil" seems unlikely. The above translation presupposes the loss of a letter in the Hebrew textual tradition (_ballotani_ for the MT's _balloti_)] with fresh oil.

###### v11
And _so_ my eye looks on my enemies. ^[This word for "enemies" suggests those watching for any advantage]
My ears hear those evildoers who rise up against me.

###### v12
_The_ righteous ^[Hebrew singular, but used as a collective. The verbs of this verse are also singular] will flourish like the date palm.
They will grow like a cedar in Lebanon.

###### v13
Planted in the house ^[Or "temple"] of Yahweh,
they will flourish in the courts of our God.

###### v14
They will still prosper in old age.
They will be fat and luxuriant, ^[This is the same word used of the oil in v. [[Ps-92#v11|11]] and translated "fresh"]

###### v15
to declare that Yahweh _is_ upright.
_He is_ my rock, and _there is_ no injustice ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] in him.