---
aliases:
  - 1 Peter 3
---

[[1 Pet-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Pet-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the same way, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some are disobedient to the word, they may be won over without a word by the conduct of their wives,

###### v2
_when they_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("see") which is understood as temporal] see your respectful, pure conduct.

###### v3
Let your ^[Literally "of whom," referring to the wives] adornment not be the external _kind_, braiding hair and putting on gold jewelry or putting on _fine_ clothing,

###### v4
but the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable _quality_ of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is highly valuable in the sight of God.

###### v5
For in the _same_ way formerly the holy women also, who hoped in God, used to adorn themselves _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("being subject") which is understood as means] being subject to their own husbands,

###### v6
like Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord, whose children you have become _when you_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("do good") which is understood as temporal] do good and are not frightened with respect to any terror.

###### v7
Husbands, in the same way live with _your wives_ _knowledgeably_ ^[Literally "according to knowledge"], as with the weaker female vessel, showing _them_ honor as fellow heirs also of the grace of life, so that your prayers will not be hindered.

###### v8
And finally, all _of you be_ harmonious, sympathetic, showing mutual affection, compassionate, humble,

###### v9
not repaying evil for evil or insult for insult, but on the other hand blessing _others_, because for this _reason_ you were called, so that you could inherit a blessing.

###### v10
For
"The one who wants to love life
and see good days
must keep his ^[Literally "the"; the Greek article is used here as a possessive pronoun] tongue from evil
and _his_ lips must not speak deceit.

###### v11
And he must turn away from evil and do good;
he must seek peace and pursue it.

###### v12
For the eyes of the Lord _are_ on the righteous,
and his ears _are open to_ their prayer.
But the face of the Lord _is_ against those who do evil. ^[Verses [[1 Pet-03#v10|10–12]][[1 Pet-03#v11|]][[1 Pet-03#v12|]] are a quotation from [[Ps-34#v12|Ps 34:12–16]][[Ps-34#v13|]][[Ps-34#v14|]][[Ps-34#v15|]][[Ps-34#v16|]]]

###### v13
And who _is_ the one who will harm you if you are a zealous adherent for what is good?

###### v14
But even if you might suffer for the sake of righteousness, _you are_ blessed. And do not be afraid of their intimidation or be disturbed, ^[The second half of this verse contains a quotation from [[Isa-08#v12|Isa 8:12]]]

###### v15
but set Christ apart _as_ Lord in your hearts, always ready to _make_ a defense to anyone who asks you _for_ an accounting concerning the hope _that is_ in you.

###### v16
But _do so_ with courtesy and respect, having a good conscience, so that in _the things_ in which you are slandered, the ones who malign your good conduct in Christ may be put to shame.

###### v17
For _it is_ better to suffer for doing good, _if God wills it_ ^[Literally "if the will of God wills"], than for doing evil.

###### v18
For Christ also suffered once for sins,
the just for the unjust,
in order that he could bring you to God,
being put to death in the flesh,
but made alive in the spirit,

###### v19
in which also he went _and_ proclaimed to the spirits in prison,

###### v20
who were formerly disobedient, when the patience of God waited in the days of Noah, _while_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the temporal genitive absolute participle ("was being constructed")] an ark was being constructed, in which a few--that is, eight souls--were rescued through water.

###### v21
And ^[Literally "which"] also, corresponding to _this_, baptism now saves you, not the removal of dirt from the flesh, but an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,

###### v22
who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, with angels and authorities and powers having been subjected to him.