---
aliases:
  - 1 Peter 5
---

[[1 Pet-04|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
Therefore _I, your_ fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, _and_ ^[The conjunction "_and_" is supplied here to make it clear that the following phrase refers also to the author of the letter and not to Christ] also a sharer of the glory that is going to be revealed, exhort the elders among you:

###### v2
shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight not by compulsion but willingly, in accordance with God, and not greedily but eagerly,

###### v3
and not as lording it over _those under your care_ ^[Literally "the portion"], but being examples for the flock.

###### v4
And _when_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the temporal genitive absolute participle ("appears")] the chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.

###### v5
In the same way, younger men, be subject to the elders, and all _of you_ clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble.

###### v6
Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that he may exalt you at the _right_ time,

###### v7
casting all your cares on him, because _he cares_ ^[Literally "it is a care to him"] for you.

###### v8
Be sober; be on the alert. Your adversary the devil walks around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour.

###### v9
_Resist him_ ^[Literally "to whom resist"], steadfast in your ^[Literally "the"; the Greek article is used here as a possessive pronoun] faith, _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("know") which is understood as causal] know the same _kinds_ of sufferings are being accomplished by your community of believers in the world.

###### v10
And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, ^[Some manuscripts have "in Christ Jesus"] _after you_ ^[Here "_after_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have suffered") which is understood as temporal] have suffered for a short time, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, _and_ establish _you_.

###### v11
To him _be_ the power _forever and ever_ ^[Literally "to the ages of the ages"]. ^[Some manuscripts have "forever" (literally "to the ages")] Amen.

###### v12
Through Silvanus, the faithful brother (as I consider _him_), I have written to you _briefly_ ^[Literally "by a few"] to encourage _you_ and to attest that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it.

###### v13
She _who is_ in Babylon, chosen the same as _you_, greets you, and _so does_ my son Mark.

###### v14
Greet one another with a loving kiss. Peace to all of you who are in Christ.