---
aliases:
  - 1 Peter 2
---

[[1 Pet-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Pet-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Therefore, ridding yourselves of all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander,

###### v2
like newborn infants long for the unadulterated spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up to salvation,

###### v3
if you have tasted that the Lord _is_ kind, ^[A quotation from [[Ps-34#v8|Ps 34:8]]]

###### v4
to whom you are drawing near, a living stone rejected by men but chosen _and_ precious in the sight of God.

###### v5
And _you_ yourselves, as living stones, are being built up _as_ a spiritual house for a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.

###### v6
For it stands in scripture,
"Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a chosen _and_ precious cornerstone,
and the one who believes in him will never be put to shame." ^[A quotation from [[Isa-28#v16|Isa 28:16]]]

###### v7
Therefore the honor _is_ for you who believe, but for those who refuse to believe,
"The stone that the builders rejected,
this one has become _the cornerstone_ ^[Literally "into the head of the corner"],"

###### v8
and
"A stone of stumbling and a rock of offense," ^[A quotation from [[Isa-08#v14|Isa 8:14]]]
who stumble _because they_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("disobey") which is understood as causal] disobey the word to which also they were consigned.

###### v9
But you _are_ a chosen race, ^[Or "people," or "generation," or "nation"] a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for _God's_ possession, so that you may proclaim the virtues of the one who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light,

###### v10
who once _were_ not a people, but now _are_ the people of God, the ones _who were_ not shown mercy, but now are shown mercy. ^[This verse contains quotations from [[Hos-01#v6|Hos 1:6]], [[Hos-01#v9|9]]; [[Hos-02#v23|2:23]]]

###### v11
Dear friends, I urge _you_ as foreigners and temporary residents to abstain from fleshly desires which wage war against your ^[Literally "the"; the Greek article is used here as a possessive pronoun] soul,

###### v12
maintaining your good conduct among the Gentiles, so that in _the things_ in which they slander you as evildoers, by seeing your good deeds they may glorify God on the day of visitation.

###### v13
Subject yourselves to every human authority for the sake of the Lord, whether to a king ^[Or "to the emperor"] as having supreme authority,

###### v14
or to governors as those sent out by him for the punishment of those who do evil and the praise of those who do good.

###### v15
For the will of God is as follows: _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("doing good") which is understood as means] doing good to silence the ignorance of foolish people.

###### v16
_Live_ as free _persons_, and not using your ^[Literally "the"; the Greek article is used here as a possessive pronoun] freedom as a covering for evil, but as slaves of God.

###### v17
Honor all _people_, love the community of believers, fear God, honor the king. ^[Or "the emperor"]

###### v18
Domestic slaves, be subject to your ^[Literally "the"; the Greek article is used here as a possessive pronoun] masters with all respect, not only to those _who are_ good and gentle, but also to those _who are_ unjust.

###### v19
For this _finds_ favor, if because of consciousness of God someone endures sorrows _while_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("suffering") which is understood as temporal] suffering unjustly.

###### v20
For what credit _is it_ if, _when you_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("sin") which is understood as temporal] sin and are beaten _for it_, you endure? But if you endure _when you_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("do good") which is understood as temporal] do good and suffer _for it_, this _finds_ favor with God.

###### v21
For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you should follow in his footsteps,

###### v22
who did not commit sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth, ^[This verse contains quotations from [[Isa-53#v9|Isa 53:9]]]

###### v23
who _when he_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was reviled") which is understood as temporal] was reviled, did not revile in return; _when_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("suffering") which is understood as temporal] suffering, he did not threaten, but entrusted _himself_ to the one who judges justly,

###### v24
who himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, so that _we_ may die to sins _and_ live to righteousness, by whose wounds you were healed.

###### v25
For you were going astray like sheep, but you have turned back now to the shepherd and guardian of your souls.