---
aliases:
  - 1 Peter 4
---

[[1 Pet-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Pet-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Therefore, _because_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("suffered") which is understood as causal] Christ suffered in the flesh, you also equip yourselves with the same way of thinking, because the one who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin,

###### v2
in order to live the remaining time in the flesh no longer for human desires, but for the will of God.

###### v3
For the time that has passed _was_ sufficient _to do what the Gentiles desire to do_ ^[Literally "to do the intention of the Gentiles"], having lived in licentiousness, _evil_ desires, drunkenness, carousing, drinking parties, and wanton idolatries,

###### v4
with respect to which they are surprised _when_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("run with") which is understood as temporal] you do not run with _them_ into the same flood of dissipation, _and so they_ ^[Here "_and so_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("revile") which is understood as result] revile _you_.

###### v5
They ^[Literally "who"] will give an account to the one who is ready to judge the living and the dead.

###### v6
Because for this reason also the gospel was preached to those who are dead, so that they were judged _by human standards_ ^[Literally "according to men"] in the flesh, but they may live in the spirit _by God's standards_ ^[Literally "according to God"].

###### v7
Now the end of all _things_ draws near. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for _your_ prayers.

###### v8
Above all, keep ^[Literally "having"] your love for one another constant, because love covers a large number of sins.

###### v9
_Be_ hospitable to one another without complaining.

###### v10
Just as each one has received a gift, _use_ it for serving one another, as good stewards of the varied grace of God.

###### v11
If anyone speaks, _let it be_ as the oracles of God; if anyone serves, _let it be_ as by the strength that God provides, so that in all _things_ God will be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the power _forever and ever_ ^[Literally "for the ages of the ages"]. Amen.

###### v12
Dear friends, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you, _when it_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("takes place") which is understood as temporal] takes place to test you, as _if_ _something_ strange were happening to you.

###### v13
But to the degree that you share in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice _and_ be glad.

###### v14
If you are reviled on account of the name of Christ, _you are_ blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you.

###### v15
By all means do not let anyone of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler.

###### v16
But if _someone suffers_ as a Christian, he must not be ashamed, but must glorify God with this name.

###### v17
For _it is_ the time for the judgment to begin out from the household of God. But if _it begins_ out from us first, what will be the outcome for those who are disobedient to the gospel of God?

###### v18
And if the righteous are saved with difficulty, _what will become of the ungodly and the sinner_ ^[Literally "the ungodly and sinner where will he appear"]? ^[This verse contains a quotation from [[Prov-11#v31|Prov 11:31]]]

###### v19
So then also those who suffer according to the will of God must entrust their souls to a faithful Creator in doing good.