---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 2
---

[[2 Cor-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
For I have decided this for myself, not to come to you again in sorrow.

###### v2
For if I _cause_ you sorrow, then who will make me glad except the one who is caused to be sad by me?

###### v3
And I wrote this very _thing_ in order that _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("came") which is understood as temporal] came, I would not experience sorrow from those who ought to have made me glad, _because I_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have confidence") which is understood as causal] have confidence about you all, that my joy _belongs to all of you_ ^[Literally "is of all of you"].

###### v4
For out of great distress and anguish of heart I wrote to you through many tears, not so that you may be caused to be sad, but so that you may know the love that I have especially for you.

###### v5
But if anyone has caused sorrow, he has not caused me sorrow, but _to some degree_ ^[Literally "in part"]--_in order not to say too much_ ^[Literally "in order not to burden"]--_to_ all _of_ you.

###### v6
This punishment by the majority _is_ sufficient for such a person.

###### v7
So then, you should rather forgive and comfort him, lest somehow this person should be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.

###### v8
Therefore I urge you to confirm _your_ love for him.

###### v9
Because for this _reason_ also I wrote, in order that I could know your proven character, whether you are obedient in everything.

###### v10
Now to whomever you forgive anything, I also _do_; for indeed, whatever I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, _it is_ _for your sake_ ^[Literally "for the sake of you"] in the presence of Christ,

###### v11
in order that we may not be exploited by Satan (for we are not ignorant of his schemes).

###### v12
Now _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("arrived") which is understood as temporal] arrived in Troas for the gospel of Christ and a door was opened for me by the Lord,

###### v13
I did not experience rest in my spirit, _because_ ^[This infinitive ("find") is understood as causal] I did not find Titus my brother, but saying farewell to them, I departed for Macedonia.

###### v14
But thanks _be_ to God, who always leads us in triumphal procession in Christ, and who reveals the fragrance of the knowledge of him through us in every place.

###### v15
For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing,

###### v16
to those on the one hand an odor from death to death, _and_ to those on the other hand a fragrance from life to life. And who _is_ qualified for these _things_?

###### v17
For we are not like the majority who peddle the word of God, but as from pure motives--but as from God--we speak before God in Christ.