---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 8
---

[[2 Cor-07|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-09|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now we make known to you, brothers, the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia,

###### v2
that with a great ordeal of affliction, the abundance of their joy and the extreme depth of their poverty have overflowed to the wealth of their generosity.

###### v3
I testify that _they gave_ ^[The words "_they gave_" are not in the Greek text, but are implied] according to _their_ ability, and beyond _their_ ability, by their own choice,

###### v4
requesting of us with much exhortation the favor and the fellowship of the ministry to the saints,

###### v5
and not just as we had hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and _then_ to us, by the will of God.

###### v6
So we urged Titus that, just as he had previously begun _it_, thus he would also complete for you this _act of_ grace.

###### v7
But just as you excel in everything--in faith and in speaking and in knowledge and with all diligence and in the love from us _that is_ in you--so may you excel in this grace also.

###### v8
I am not saying _this_ as a command, but proving the genuineness of your love by means of the diligence of others.

###### v9
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that _although he_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was") which is understood as concessive] was rich, for your sake he became poor, in order that you, by his poverty, may become rich.

###### v10
And I am giving an opinion in this _matter_, because this is profitable for you who not only began previously, a year ago, to do _something_, but also to want _to do it_.

###### v11
So now also complete the doing _of it_, in order that just as _you have_ the eagerness to want _to do it_, thus also _you may_ complete _it_ from _what you_ have.

###### v12
For if the eagerness is present _according to what one has_ ^[Literally "to the degree that if he might have"], _it is_ acceptable not _according to what one does not have_ ^[Literally "to the degree that he might not have"].

###### v13
For _this is_ not that for others _there may be_ relief, _and_ for you difficult circumstances, but _as a matter_ of equality.

###### v14
At the present time your abundance _will be_ for their need, in order that their abundance may also be for your need, so that there may be equality,

###### v15
just as it is written, "The _one_ who _gathered_ much did not have too much, and the _one_ who _gathered_ little did not have too little." ^[A quotation from [[Exod-16#v18|Exod 16:18]]]

###### v16
But thanks _be_ to God, who has put in the heart of Titus the same devotion _on your behalf_ ^[Literally "on behalf of you"],

###### v17
because he not only welcomed our request, but being very earnest, by his own choice he went out ^[Or "he is going out" (if this verb is understood as an epistolary aorist)] to you.

###### v18
And we have sent at the same time with him the brother whose praise in the gospel _has become known_ throughout all the churches.

###### v19
And not only _this_, but he was also chosen by the churches _as_ our traveling companion together with this gift that is being administered by us to the glory of the Lord himself and _to show_ our readiness _to help_.

###### v20
_We are_ trying to avoid this, lest anyone should find fault with us in this abundant gift that is being administered by us.

###### v21
For we are taking into consideration what is honorable not only before the Lord, but also before people.

###### v22
And we are sending with them our brother whom we have tested many times in many _things_ that he is diligent, but now much more diligent _because of his_ great confidence in you.

###### v23
If _there is a question_ concerning Titus, _he is_ my partner and fellow worker for you. If _there is a question concerning_ our brothers, _they are_ messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ.

###### v24
Therefore show to them the proof of your love and our boasting about you _openly before_ ^[Literally "to the face of"] the churches.