---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 5
---

[[2 Cor-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
For we know that if our earthly house, the tent, is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made by hands, eternal in the heavens.

###### v2
For indeed, in this _house_ we groan, _because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("desire") which is understood as causal] desire to put on our dwelling from heaven,

###### v3
if indeed, even _after we_ ^[Here "_after_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have taken off") which is understood as temporal] have taken _it_ off, ^[A number of important early manuscripts read "have put _it_ on" here] we will not be found naked.

###### v4
For indeed we who are in this tent groan, being burdened _for this reason, that_ ^[Literally "in that"] we do not want to be unclothed, but to be clothed, in order that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.

###### v5
Now the one who has prepared us for this very _thing_ _is_ God, who has given us the down payment, the Spirit.

###### v6
Therefore, _although we are_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("confident") which is understood as concessive] always confident and know that _while we_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are at home") which is understood as temporal] are at home in the body we are absent from the Lord--

###### v7
for we live by faith, not by sight--

###### v8
so we are confident and prefer rather to be absent from the body and to be at home with the Lord.

###### v9
Therefore indeed we have as our ambition, whether at home _in the body_ or absent _from the body_, to be acceptable to him.

###### v10
For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, in order that each one may receive back the _things_ through the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad.

###### v11
Therefore, _because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("know") which is understood as causal] know the fear of the Lord, we are attempting to persuade people, but we are revealed to God, and I hope to be revealed in your consciences.

###### v12
We are not commending ourselves to you again, but are giving you an opportunity to boast about us, in order that you may have _an answer_ for those who boast in appearance and not in heart.

###### v13
For if we are out of our senses, _it is_ for God; if we are of sound mind, _it is_ for you.

###### v14
For the love of Christ controls us, _because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have concluded") which is understood as causal] have concluded this: that one died for all; as a result all died.

###### v15
And he died for all, in order that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for the one who died for them and was raised.

###### v16
So then, from now on we know no one _from a human point of view_ ^[Literally "according to the flesh"], if indeed we have known Christ _from a human point of view_ ^[Literally "according to the flesh"], but now we know _him this way_ no longer.

###### v17
Therefore if anyone _is_ in Christ, _he is_ a new creation; the old _things_ have passed away; behold, new _things_ have come.

###### v18
And all these _things_ _are_ from God, who has reconciled us to himself through Christ, and who has given us the ministry of reconciliation,

###### v19
namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation.

###### v20
Therefore we are ambassadors on behalf of Christ, as _if_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("were imploring") which is understood as conditional] God were imploring _you_ through us. We beg _you_ on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.

###### v21
He made the one who did not know sin _to be_ sin on our behalf, in order that we could become the righteousness of God in him.