---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 12
---

[[2 Cor-11|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-13|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It is necessary to boast; _it is_ not profitable, but I will proceed to visions and revelations of the Lord.

###### v2
I know a man in Christ fourteen years ago--whether in the body I do not know, or outside the body I do not know, God knows--such a man was caught up to the third heaven,

###### v3
and I know this man--whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, God knows--

###### v4
that he was caught up to paradise and heard words not to be spoken, which _it is_ not permitted for a person to speak.

###### v5
On behalf of such a person I will boast, but on behalf of myself I will not boast, except in my weaknesses.

###### v6
For if I want to boast, I will not be foolish, because I will be telling the truth, but I am refraining, so that no one can credit to me more than what he sees _in_ me or hears anything from me,

###### v7
even because of the extraordinary degree of the revelations. Therefore, so that I would not exalt myself, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan, in order that it would torment me so that I would not exalt myself.

###### v8
Three times I appealed to the Lord about this, that it would depart from me.

###### v9
And he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, because the ^[A majority of later manuscripts read "my"] power is perfected in weakness." Therefore rather I will boast most gladly in my weaknesses, in order that the power of Christ may reside in me.

###### v10
Therefore I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in calamities, in persecutions and difficulties for the sake of Christ, for whenever I am weak, then I am strong.

###### v11
I have become a fool! You compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by you, for _I am_ in no way inferior to the preeminent apostles, ^[Some interpreters take this to refer to the original apostles in Jerusalem; others take Paul to be referring sarcastically to his opponents in Corinth.] even if I am nothing.

###### v12
Indeed, the signs of an apostle have been done among you with all patient endurance, both signs and wonders and deeds of power.

###### v13
_For in what respect are you made worse off_ ^[Literally "for what is it _with respect to_ which you are made worse off"] more than the rest of the churches, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong!

###### v14
Behold, this third _time_ I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden _to you_. For I am not seeking your possessions, but you. For children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children.

###### v15
But I will spend and be expended most gladly for your lives. If I love you much more, am I to be loved less?

###### v16
But let _it_ be. I have not been a burden to you, but _because I_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was") which is understood as causal] was crafty, I took you by cunning.

###### v17
I have not taken advantage of you _through anyone whom I sent to you_ ^[Literally "anyone whom I sent to you, through him"], _have I_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here]

###### v18
I urged Titus _to go_, and I sent the brother _with him_. Titus did not take advantage of you, _did he_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here] Did we not conduct ourselves in the same spirit? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a positive answer here] Did we not walk in the same footsteps? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a positive answer here]

###### v19
Have you been thinking all this time that we are defending ourselves to you? We are speaking in Christ before God, and all _these things_, dear friends, _are_ for your edification.

###### v20
For I am afraid lest somehow _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("arrive") which is understood as temporal] arrive, I will not find you as I want, and I may be found by you as you do not want. _I am afraid_ ^[The words "I am afraid" are not in the Greek text, but are an understood repetition from the previous clause] lest somehow _there will be_ strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, selfish ambition, slander, gossip, pride, disorder.

###### v21
_I am afraid_ lest _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("come") which is understood as temporal] come again my God will humiliate me _in your presence_ ^[Literally "with you"], and I will grieve over many of those who sinned previously and have not repented because of their impurity and sexual immorality and licentiousness that they have practiced.