---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 1
---

[[2 Cor-02|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our brother, to the church of God that is in Corinth, together with all the saints who are in all Achaia.

###### v2
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

###### v3
Blessed _is_ the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort,

###### v4
who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those _who are_ in all affliction with the comfort with which _we_ ourselves are comforted by God.

###### v5
For just as the sufferings of Christ overflow to us, thus through Christ our comfort overflows also.

###### v6
But if we are afflicted, _it is_ for your comfort and salvation; if we are comforted, _it is_ for your comfort that is at work in the patient endurance of the same sufferings that we also suffer.

###### v7
And our hope for you _is_ firm, _because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("is") which is understood as causal] know that as you are sharers in the sufferings, so also _you will be sharers_ in the comfort.

###### v8
For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning our affliction that happened in the _province of_ Asia, ^[A reference to the Roman province of Asia (modern Asia Minor)] that we were burdened to an extraordinary degree, beyond _our_ strength, so that we were in despair even of living.

###### v9
But _we_ ourselves had the sentence of death in ourselves, so that we would not be putting confidence in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead,

###### v10
who delivered us from so great _a risk_ of death, and will deliver _us_, in whom we have put our hope that he will also deliver _us_ again,

###### v11
_while_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the temporal genitive absolute participle ("join in helping")] you also join in helping _on our behalf_ ^[Literally "on behalf of us"] by prayer, so that thanks may be given _on our behalf_ ^[Literally "on behalf of us"] by many persons for this gracious gift _given_ to us through _the help_ of many.

###### v12
For our reason for boasting is this: the testimony of our conscience that we conducted ourselves in the world, and especially toward you, in holiness ^[Some manuscripts have "sincerity"] and purity of motive from God, not ^[Some manuscripts have "and not"] in merely human wisdom, but by the grace of God.

###### v13
For we are not writing _anything_ else to you except what you can read or also understand. But I hope that you will understand _completely_ ^[Literally "to the end"],

###### v14
just as you have also understood us in part, that we are your reason for boasting, just as you _are_ also ours in the day of our Lord Jesus.

###### v15
And with this confidence, I was wanting to come to you previously, in order that you may have a second proof of my goodwill,

###### v16
and through you to go to Macedonia, and to come to you again from Macedonia, and to be sent on my way by you to Judea.

###### v17
Therefore, _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was wanting") which is understood as temporal] was wanting _to do_ this, perhaps then was I making use of vacillation? Or was I deciding what I was deciding according to the flesh, in order that with me my "yes" may be "yes" and my "no" _may be_ "no" _at the same time_? ^[*The words "at the same time" are supplied for clarity]

###### v18
But God _is_ faithful, so that our word to you is not "yes" and "no."

###### v19
For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, the one who was proclaimed among you by us, by me and Silvanus and Timothy, did not become "yes" and "no," but has become "yes" in him.

###### v20
For as many as _are the_ promises of God, in him _they are_ "yes"; therefore also through him _is_ the "amen" to the glory of God through us.

###### v21
Now the one who establishes us together with you in Christ and who anoints us _is_ God,

###### v22
_who_ also sealed us and gave the down payment of the Spirit in our hearts.

###### v23
But I call upon God _as_ witness against my life, that _in order to_ ^[Here "_in order to_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("spare") which is understood as purpose] spare you, I did not come again to Corinth.

###### v24
Not that we lord it over your faith, but we are fellow workers for your joy, because by faith you stand firm.