---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 11
---

[[2 Cor-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
I wish that you would put up with me _in something a little foolish_ ^[Literally "a little something of foolishness"]--but indeed you are putting up with me.

###### v2
For I am jealous _for_ you with a godly jealousy, because I promised you _in marriage_ to one husband, to present _you_ _as_ a pure virgin to Christ.

###### v3
But I am afraid lest somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your minds may be led astray from the sincerity and the purity of _devotion_ to Christ.

###### v4
For if the one who comes proclaims another Jesus whom we have not proclaimed, or you receive a different spirit which you did not receive, or a different gospel which you did not accept, you put up with _it_ well _enough_!

###### v5
For I consider myself in no way to be inferior to the preeminent apostles. ^[Some interpreters take this to refer to the original apostles in Jerusalem; others take Paul to be referring sarcastically to his opponents in Corinth.]

###### v6
But even if _I am_ unskilled in speech, yet _I am_ not in knowledge; certainly in everything _we_ have made this clear to you in every _way_.

###### v7
Or did I commit a sin _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("humbling") which is understood as means] humbling myself in order that you may be exalted, because I proclaimed the gospel of God to you without payment?

###### v8
I robbed other churches _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("accepting") which is understood as means] accepting support _from them_ for the ministry to you.

###### v9
And _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was present") which is understood as temporal] was present with you and was in need, I did not burden anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need, and in everything I kept myself from being a burden to you, and will keep _myself from being a burden_.

###### v10
_As the_ truth of Christ is in me, this boasting _of mine_ ^[Literally "to me"] will not be stopped in the regions of Achaia.

###### v11
_Why_ ^[Literally "because of what"]? Because I do not love you? God knows _I do_!

###### v12
But what I am doing, I will also do, in order that I may remove the opportunity of those who want an opportunity, that they may be found just as also we _are_ in what they are boasting about.

###### v13
For such people _are_ false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ.

###### v14
And no wonder, for Satan himself disguises himself as an angel of light.

###### v15
Therefore _it is_ not a great thing if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, whose end will be according to their deeds.

###### v16
Again I say, do not let anyone think I am foolish. But indeed, if _you do_, accept me even as foolish, in order that I also may boast a little.

###### v17
What I am saying in this project of boasting, I am not saying as the Lord _would say_, but as in foolishness.

###### v18
Since many are boasting according to human standards, I also will boast.

###### v19
For _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are") which is understood as causal] are wise, you put up with foolish people gladly!

###### v20
For you put up with _it_ if someone enslaves you, if someone devours _you_, if someone takes advantage of _you_, if someone is presumptious _toward you_, if someone strikes you in the face.

###### v21
I say _this_ to _my_ shame, namely, that we have been weak.
But in whatever anyone dares to _boast_--I am speaking in foolishness--I also dare to _boast_.

###### v22
Are they Hebrews? I _am_ also! Are they Israelites? I _am_ also! Are they descendants of Abraham? I _am_ also!

###### v23
Are they servants of Christ?--I am speaking as though I were beside myself--I _am_ more so, with far greater labors, with far more imprisonments, with beatings to a much greater degree, in _danger of_ death many times.

###### v24
Five times I received at the hands of the Jews forty _lashes_ less one.

###### v25
Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I received a stoning. Three times I was shipwrecked. A day and a night I have spent in the deep water.

###### v26
_I have been_ on journeys many times, in dangers from rivers, in dangers from robbers, in dangers from _my own_ people, in dangers from the Gentiles, in dangers in the city, in dangers in the wilderness, in dangers at sea, in dangers because of false brothers,

###### v27
with toil and hardship, often in sleepless nights, with hunger and thirst, often going hungry, in cold and poorly clothed.

###### v28
Apart from these external things, _there is_ the pressure on me every day of the anxiety about all the churches.

###### v29
Who is weak, and _I am_ not weak? Who is caused to sin, and I do not burn _with indignation_?

###### v30
If it is necessary to boast, I will boast _about_ _the things related to my weakness_ ^[Literally "the things of my weakness"].

###### v31
The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, who is blessed _forever_ ^[Literally "to the ages"], knows that I am not lying.

###### v32
In Damascus, the governor under King Aretas was guarding the city of the Damascenes in order to take me into custody,

###### v33
and I was lowered through a window through the wall in a rope-basket, and I escaped his hands.