---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 4
---

[[2 Cor-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Because of this, _since we_ ^[Here "_since_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have") which is understood as causal] have this ministry, just as we have been shown mercy, we do not lose heart,

###### v2
but we have renounced shameful hidden things, not behaving with craftiness or adulterating the word of God, but with the open proclamation of the truth commending ourselves to every person's conscience before God.

###### v3
But if indeed our gospel is veiled, it is veiled among those who are perishing,

###### v4
among whom the god of this age has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, so that they would not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.

###### v5
For we do not proclaim ourselves, but Christ Jesus ^[Some manuscripts have "Jesus Christ"] _as_ Lord, and ourselves _as_ your slaves for the sake of Jesus.

###### v6
For God who said, "Light will shine out of darkness," ^[An allusion to [[Gen-01#v3|Gen 1:3]]] _is the one_ who has shined in our hearts for the enlightenment of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. ^[Some manuscripts have "in the face of Jesus Christ"]

###### v7
But we have this treasure in earthenware jars, in order that the extraordinary degree of the power may be from God and not from us.

###### v8
We are afflicted in every _way_, but not crushed; perplexed, but not despairing;

###### v9
persecuted, but not abandoned; struck down, but not destroyed;

###### v10
always carrying around the death of Jesus in our body, in order that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our body.

###### v11
For we who are alive _are_ continually being handed over to death because of Jesus, in order that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our mortal flesh.

###### v12
So then, death is at work in us, but life in you.

###### v13
But _because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have") which is understood as causal] have the same spirit of faith in accordance with _what is_ written, "I believed, therefore I spoke," ^[A quotation from [[Ps-116#v10|Ps 116:10]]] we also believe, therefore we also speak,

###### v14
_because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("know") which is understood as causal] know that the one who raised Jesus ^[Some manuscripts have "the Lord Jesus"] will also raise us together with Jesus and present _us_ together with you.

###### v15
For all _these things_ _are for your sake_ ^[Literally "for the sake of you"], in order that the grace that is increasing through the many may cause thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God.

###### v16
Therefore we do not lose heart, but even if our outer person is being destroyed, yet our inner _person_ is being renewed day after day.

###### v17
For our momentary light affliction is producing in us an eternal weight of glory _beyond all measure and proportion_ ^[Literally "according to an extraordinary degree to an extraordinary degree"],

###### v18
_because_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the causal genitive absolute participle ("looking at")] we are not looking at what is seen, but what is not seen. For what is seen _is_ temporary, but what is not seen _is_ eternal.