---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 9
---

[[2 Cor-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
For it is unnecessary for me to write to you concerning the ministry to the saints,

###### v2
because I know your readiness _to help_, _concerning_ which I keep on boasting to the Macedonians about you, that Achaia has been ready _to help_ since last year, and your zeal has stirred up the majority _of them_.

###### v3
But I am sending the brothers in order that our boasting about you would not prove to be empty in this case, so that you may be prepared just as I was saying,

###### v4
lest somehow if Macedonians should come with me and find you unprepared, we--_not to speak of you_ ^[Literally "so that we do not speak about you"; some manuscripts have "so that I do not speak about you"]--would be humiliated in connection with this project.

###### v5
Therefore I considered _it_ necessary to urge the brothers that they should go on ahead to you and make arrangements in advance for your generous gift that was promised previously, so this would be prepared as a generous gift and not as grudgingly granted.

###### v6
Now _the point is_ this: the one who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and the one who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.

###### v7
Each one _should give_ as he has decided in his heart, not _reluctantly_ ^[Literally "out of sorrow"] or from compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.

###### v8
And God is able to cause all grace to abound to you, so that in everything at all times, _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have") which is understood as causal] have enough of everything, you may overflow in every good work.

###### v9
Just as it is written,
"He scattered widely, he gave to the poor;
his righteousness remains _forever_ ^[Literally "for the age"]." ^[A quotation from [[Ps-112#v9|Ps 112:9]]]

###### v10
Now the one who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will provide and multiply your seed, and will cause the harvest of your righteousness to grow,

###### v11
being made rich in every _way_ for all generosity, which is producing through us thanksgiving to God,

###### v12
because the service of this ministry is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but also is overflowing through many _expressions of_ thanksgiving to God.

###### v13
Through the proven character of this service _they will_ glorify God because of the submission of your confession to the gospel of Christ and the generosity of _your_ participation toward them and toward everyone,

###### v14
and _they are_ longing for you in their prayers for you, because of the surpassing grace of God to you.

###### v15
Thanks _be_ to God for his indescribable gift!