---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 7
---

[[2 Cor-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Therefore _since we_ ^[Here "_since_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have") which is understood as causal] have these promises, dear friends, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of body and spirit, accomplishing holiness in the fear of God.

###### v2
_Make room for us in your hearts_ ^[Literally "make room for us"]. We have wronged no one, we have ruined no one, we have defrauded no one.

###### v3
I do not say _this_ _to condemn you_ ^[Literally "for condemnation"], because I have already said that you are in our hearts, so that we die together and we live together.

###### v4
Great _is_ my confidence toward you; great _is_ my boasting on your behalf; I am filled with encouragement; I am overflowing with joy in all our affliction.

###### v5
For even _when_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the temporal genitive absolute participle ("arrived")] we arrived in Macedonia, our body had no rest, but we were afflicted in every _way_--quarrels outside, fears within.

###### v6
But God, who comforts the humble, comforted us by the coming of Titus,

###### v7
and not only by his coming, but also by the comfort _with_ which he was comforted among you, _because he_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("reported") which is understood as causal] reported to us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced even more.

###### v8
For if indeed I grieved you by my letter, I do not regret _it_. Even if I did regret _it_ (I see ^[Some manuscripts have "for I see"] that that letter grieved you, even though for _a short time_ ^[Literally "an hour"]),

###### v9
now I rejoice, not that you were grieved, but that you were grieved to repentance. For you were grieved according to _the will of_ God, so that you suffered loss in no way through us.

###### v10
For grief according to _the will of_ God brings about a repentance _leading_ to salvation, not to be regretted, but worldly grief brings about death.

###### v11
For behold how much diligence this very _thing_, being grieved according to _the will of_ God, has brought about in you: what defense _of yourselves_, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment! In everything you have demonstrated yourselves to be innocent in this matter.

###### v12
Consequently, even if I wrote to you, it was not because of the one who did wrong or because of the one who had been wronged, but in order that your diligence _on our behalf_ ^[Literally "on behalf of us"] might be revealed to you before God.

###### v13
Because of this we have been encouraged, and in addition to our encouragement, we rejoiced much more over the joy of Titus, because his spirit had been refreshed by all of you.

###### v14
For if I have boasted anything to him about you, I have not been put to shame, but as I have spoken everything to you in truth, thus also our boasting to Titus _has proven to be true_ ^[Literally "has become truth"].

###### v15
And his affection for you is all the more _when he_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("remembers") which is understood as temporal] remembers the obedience of all of you as you welcomed him with fear and trembling.

###### v16
I rejoice, because in everything I am completely confident in you.