---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 13
---

[[2 Cor-12|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
This _is_ the third _time_ I am coming to you. _By the testimony_ ^[Literally "from the mouth"] of two or three witnesses every word ^[Or "matter"] will be established.

###### v2
I have already said when _I_ was present the second time, and _although I_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("am absent") which is understood as concessive] am absent now _I_ also say in advance to those who sinned previously and to all the rest, that if I come again I will not spare _anyone_,

###### v3
since you are demanding proof that Christ, who _is_ not weak toward you, but is powerful among you, is speaking in me.

###### v4
For indeed, he was crucified because of weakness, but he lives because of the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we will live together with him because of the power of God toward you.

###### v5
Test yourselves _to see_ if you are in the faith. Examine yourselves! Or do you not recognize regarding yourselves that Jesus Christ _is_ in you, unless you are unqualified?

###### v6
And I hope that you will recognize that we are not unqualified!

###### v7
Now we pray to God that you not do wrong in any way, not that we are seen as approved, but that you do what is good, even _though_ we are _seen_ as though unqualified.

###### v8
For we are not able _to do_ anything against the truth, but rather _only_ for the truth.

###### v9
For we rejoice whenever we are weak, but you are strong, and we pray for this: your maturity.

###### v10
Because of this, I am writing these _things_ _although I_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("am absent") which is understood as concessive] am absent, in order that _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("am present") which is understood as temporal] am present I may not have to act severely according to the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.

###### v11
Finally, brothers, rejoice, be restored, be encouraged, _be in agreement_ ^[Literally "think the same thing"], be at peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you.

###### v12
Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the saints greet you.

###### v13
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit _be_ with all of you.