---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 3
---

[[2 Cor-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or _do we_, like some, need letters of recommendation to you or from you?

###### v2
You are our letter, inscribed on our hearts, known and read by all people,

###### v3
revealing that you are a letter of Christ, delivered by us, inscribed not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, not on stone tablets but on tablets of human hearts.

###### v4
Now we possess such confidence through Christ toward God.

###### v5
Not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as from ourselves, but our adequacy _is_ from God,

###### v6
who also makes us adequate _as_ servants of a new covenant, not of the letter, but of the Spirit, for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.

###### v7
But if the ministry of death in letters carved on stone came with glory, so that the sons of Israel were not able to look intently into the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, which was transitory,

###### v8
how will the ministry of the Spirit not be even more with glory?

###### v9
For if _there was_ glory in the ministry of condemnation, by much more will the ministry of righteousness overflow with glory.

###### v10
For indeed what had been glorified has not been glorified in this case, on account of the glory that surpasses _it_.

###### v11
For if what was transitory _came_ with glory, by much more what remains _is_ with glory.

###### v12
Therefore, _because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have") which is understood as causal] have such a hope, we use much boldness,

###### v13
and not as Moses used to place a veil over his face, in order that the sons of Israel would not stare at the end of what was transitory.

###### v14
But their minds were hardened. For until this very day, the same veil remains upon the reading of the old covenant, not being uncovered, because it is done away with in Christ.

###### v15
But until today, whenever Moses is read aloud, a veil lies upon their heart,

###### v16
but whenever one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed.

###### v17
Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord _is, there is_ freedom.

###### v18
And we all, with unveiled face, reflecting ^[Or "contemplating"] the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory into glory, just as from the Lord, the Spirit.