---
aliases:
  - 2 Corinthians 6
---

[[2 Cor-05|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Cor-07|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now _because we_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are fellow workers") which is understood as causal] are fellow workers, we also urge you not to receive the grace of God in vain.

###### v2
For he says,
"At the acceptable time I heard you,
and in the day of salvation I helped you." ^[A quotation from [[Isa-49#v8|Isa 49:8]]]
Behold, now _is_ the acceptable time; behold, now _is_ the day of salvation!

###### v3
_We are_ giving no one an occasion for taking offense in anything, in order that our ministry will not have fault found _with it_,

###### v4
but commending ourselves as servants of God in every _way_, in much endurance, in afflictions, in distresses, in difficulties,

###### v5
in beatings, in prisons, in disturbances, in troubles, in sleepless nights, in going hungry,

###### v6
in purity, in knowledge, in patience, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in love without hypocrisy,

###### v7
in the word of truth, in the power of God, with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and left hand,

###### v8
through glory and dishonor, through slander and good repute, _regarded_ as deceivers and _yet_ truthful,

###### v9
as unknown and _yet_ known completely, as dying, and behold, we go on living, as disciplined, and _yet_ not put to death,

###### v10
as grieving, but always rejoicing, as poor, but making many rich, as having nothing, and possessing everything.

###### v11
_We have spoken freely and openly_ ^[Literally "the mouth of us has opened"] to you, Corinthians; our heart is open wide.

###### v12
You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted in your affections.

###### v13
Now the same _way_ _in_ exchange (I am speaking as to children), you open wide _your hearts_ also.

###### v14
Do not become unevenly yoked with unbelievers, for what participation _is there between_ righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship _does_ light _have_ with darkness?

###### v15
And what agreement _does_ Christ _have_ with Beliar? Or what share _does_ a believer _have_ with an unbeliever?

###### v16
And what agreement _does the_ temple of God _have_ with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, just as God said,
"I will live in ^[Or "with"] them and will walk about _among them_,
and I will be their God and they will be my people." ^[A quotation from [[Lev-26#v12|Lev 26:12]] (also similar to [[Jer-32#v38|Jer 32:38]], [[Ezek-37#v27|Ezek 37:27]])]

###### v17
Therefore "come out from their midst
and be separate," says the Lord,
"and do not touch what is unclean, ^[A quotation from [[Isa-52#v11|Isa 52:11]]]
and I will welcome you, ^[A paraphrased quotation from [[Ezek-20#v41|Ezek 20:41]]]

###### v18
and I will be a father to you,
and you will be sons and daughters to me," ^[A paraphrased quotation from [[2 Sam-07#v14|2 Sam 7:14]] and [[Isa-43#v6|Isa 43:6]]]
says the all-powerful Lord.