---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 19
---

[[1 Kgs-18|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-20|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.

###### v2
Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, "Thus may the gods do _to me_, and may they add _to it_, surely at this time tomorrow I will make your life as the life of one of them!"

###### v3
Then he became afraid, ^[According to Greek, Syriac, and Latin manuscripts. Hebrew reads "he saw"] got up, and _fled for his life_. ^[Literally "he went to his life"] He came _to_ Beersheba which belongs to Judah, and he left his servant there.

###### v4
Then he went into the wilderness one day's journey, and he went and sat under a certain broom tree. Then _he asked Yahweh that he might die_, ^[Literally "he asked his life to die"] and he said, "It is enough now, Yahweh; take my life, for I am no better than my ancestors." ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v5
He lay down and fell asleep under a certain broom tree, and suddenly this angel _was_ touching him and said to him, "Get up, eat!"

###### v6
He looked, and behold, a bread cake on hot coals _was_ near his head and a jar of water, so he ate and drank. Then he did it again and lay down.

###### v7
The angel of Yahweh appeared a second _time_ and touched him and said, "Get up, eat, for the journey is greater than you."

###### v8
So he got up, ate, drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights up to Horeb, the mountain of God.

###### v9
He came to the cave there and spent the night there. Suddenly the _word_ of Yahweh came to him and asked him, "_Elijah, what are you doing here_?" ^[Literally "What is for you here, Elijah"]

###### v10
Then he said, "I have been very zealous for Yahweh the God of hosts, for the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] have forsaken your covenant. They have demolished your altars, and they have killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left over, and they seek to take my life.

###### v11
He ^[That is, Yahweh] said, "Go out and stand on the mountain before Yahweh." Suddenly Yahweh was passing by, with a great and strong wind ripping the mountains and crushing rocks before Yahweh; _but_ Yahweh _was_ not in the wind. After the wind, _there was_ an earthquake; _but_ Yahweh was not in the earthquake.

###### v12
After the earthquake _was_ a fire, _but_ Yahweh was not in the fire. After the fire _there was_ the sound of a gentle whisper.

###### v13
It happened at the moment Elijah heard, he covered his face with his cloak and went out and stood _at_ the entrance of the cave. Suddenly a voice _came_ to him and said, "_Elijah, why are you here_?" ^[Literally "What is for you here, Elijah"]

###### v14
He said, "I have been very zealous for Yahweh the God of Hosts, for the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] have forsaken your covenant, demolished your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword; I alone am left, and they seek to take my life!"

###### v15
Then Yahweh said to him, "Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. Go and anoint Hazael as king over Aram;

###### v16
and Jehu son of Nimshi you shall anoint as king over Israel. You shall also anoint Elisha son of Shaphat from Abel-Meholah as prophet in your place.

###### v17
It shall be that the _one_ who escapes from the sword of Hazael, Jehu will kill; the one who escapes from the sword of Jehu, Elisha shall kill.

###### v18
I will leave in Israel seven thousand, all of the knees that have not bowed down to Baal and all of the mouths that have not kissed him."

###### v19
So he went from there and found Elisha son of Shaphat while he _was_ plowing _with_ twelve pairs of oxen before him. When he and the twelve passed Elijah, he threw his cloak on him.

###### v20
Then he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, "Please let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will go after you." Then he said, "Go, return, for what I have done to you?"

###### v21
So he returned from after him, and he took a pair of oxen and slaughtered them, and with the yoke of the oxen he boiled the flesh and gave it to the people and they ate. Then he arose and went after Elijah and served him.