---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 6
---

[[1 Kgs-05|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-07|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened in the four hundred and eightieth year _after_ the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] went out from the land of Egypt, in the fourth year _of Solomon's rule_ ^[Literally "Solomon to rule"] over Israel, the month of Ziv (that _is_ the second month), that he began to build the house for Yahweh.

###### v2
Now the house that King Solomon built for Yahweh _was_ sixty cubits _in_ its length and twenty cubits _in_ its width and thirty cubits _in_ its height.

###### v3
The vestibule on the face of the main hall of the temple ^[Or "house"] _was_ twenty cubits _in_ its length, and the width of the temple ^[Or "house"] _was_ ten cubits wide on the face of the temple. ^[Or "house"]

###### v4
And he made for the temple ^[Or "house"] specially designed framed windows,

###### v5
and he built a structure against the wall of the temple ^[Or "house"] _running_ all along the walls of the house, for the outer sanctuary and for the inner sanctuary, and made side rooms all around.

###### v6
The lower structure _was_ five cubits in its width and the middle _was_ six cubits in its width and the third _was_ seven cubits in its width, for he made niches for the temple ^[Or "house"] all around to the outside, _so that_ beams _would_ not attach to the walls of the temple. ^[Or "house"]

###### v7
Now while the temple ^[Or "house"] was being built, it was built _with_ stones finished _at the_ quarry, _so that_ no hammer or stone shaping tool or any instrument of iron was heard in the temple ^[Or "house"] as it was being built.

###### v8
The doorway of the side room in the middle of the side of the temple ^[Or "house"] _was_ on the south; they went up with a stairway to the middle and from the middle to the third _floor_.

###### v9
So he built the house and finished it. He covered the temple ^[Or "house"] _with_ rafters and wood planks and with the cedars.

###### v10
He also built the structure against all of the temple ^[Or "house"] five cubits in height and fastened it to the temple ^[Or "house"] with beams of cedar.

###### v11
Then the word of Yahweh came to Solomon, saying,

###### v12
"_Regarding_ this temple ^[Or "house"] that you are building: if you walk in my ordinances and if you do my judgments and you keep all my commandments to walk in them, then I will establish my promise with you which I made to David your father.

###### v13
And I will dwell _among_ ^[Literally "in the middle of"] the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] and I will not forsake my people Israel."

###### v14
So Solomon built the temple ^[Or "house"] and finished it.

###### v15
He lined the walls _of the inside of the house_ ^[Literally "the house from house"] with boards of cedar; from the floor of the temple ^[Or "house"] up to the rafters of the ceiling he covered _them with_ wood _on the inside_. ^[Literally "from house"] He also covered the floor of the temple ^[Or "house"] with cypress boards.

###### v16
He built twenty cubits from the rear of the house with boards of cedar from the floor up to the ceiling, and he built for it an inner sanctuary on the inside, as the _most holy place_. ^[Literally "as the holy place of the holy places." Often referred to as the Holy of Holies]

###### v17
The main hall of the temple ^[Or "house"] was forty cubits _in front of the inner sanctuary_, ^[So LXX supported by the Vulgate. MT has "before me"]

###### v18
with the cedar within the inner house _having_ carvings of gourds and buds of flowers. It _was_ entirely of cedar; there was not a stone visible.

###### v19
Now _in_ the inner sanctuary in the middle of the temple ^[Or "house"] he prepared the inside to place the ark of the covenant of Yahweh there.

###### v20
In front, the inner sanctuary _was_ twenty cubits long and twenty cubits wide and twenty cubits high, and he overlaid it _with_ pure gold and covered the altar _with_ cedar.

###### v21
Solomon overlaid the temple ^[Or "house"] on the inside _with_ pure gold, and he drew across it with golden chains in front of the inner sanctuary, which he overlaid with gold.

###### v22
All of the temple ^[Or "house"] he overlaid with gold until all of the temple ^[Or "house"] _was_ finished; all of the altar which belonged to the inner sanctuary he overlaid with gold.

###### v23
He made two cherubim of olive wood for the inner sanctuary, ten cubits high.

###### v24
Five cubits _was_ the first wing of the cherub, and five cubits the second wing of the cherub, from the tip of his _one_ wing up to the tip of his _other_ wing.

###### v25
The second cherub _was_ ten cubits _according to_ _the same_ ^[Literally "one"] measurement, and _there_ was one shape for the two cherubim.

###### v26
The height of the first cherub _was_ ten cubits and so _was_ the second cherub.

###### v27
He placed the cherubim in the middle of the inner house, and they spread out the wings of the cherubim; the wing of the first cherub touched against the wall and the wing of the second cherub _was_ touching against the second wall; their wings _spread_ to the middle of the house _and were_ touching wing to wing.

###### v28
He also overlaid the cherubim with gold.

###### v29
On all of the walls around the house, he carved engravings of cherubim and palm tree images and budding flowers both inside and out.

###### v30
He overlaid the floor of the house with gold both inside and out.

###### v31
He made doors of olive wood for the doorway of the inner sanctuary, _as well as for_ the doorpost of the fifth doorframe.

###### v32
_On_ the two doors of olive wood he made carvings of cherubim and palm tree images and budding flowers, and he overlaid them with gold _by beating_ ^[Literally "and he beat out"] out the gold on the cherubim and the palm tree images.

###### v33
Thus he made doorframes of olive wood on four sides for the doorway of the main hall

###### v34
and two doors of cypress wood; one door _with_ two folding panels and the second door _with_ two folding panels.

###### v35
He carved cherubim and palm tree images and budding flowers and overlaid them with gold evenly applied on the carved work.

###### v36
Then he built the inner courtyard _with_ three rows of dressed stone and a row of cedar beams.

###### v37
In the fourth year, ^[That is, the fourth year of Solomon's reign] the house of Yahweh was founded in the month of Ziv.

###### v38
In the eleventh year in the month of Bul, that is, the eighth month, the house was finished _according_ to all his specifications and _according_ to all his plans. He had built it in seven years.