---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 9
---

[[1 Kgs-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened that as Solomon finished the building of the house of Yahweh, the king's house, and all the things Solomon desired to do,

###### v2
Yahweh appeared to Solomon a second time, as he had appeared to him in Gibeon.

###### v3
Yahweh said to him, "I have heard your prayer and your plea which you have made before me. I have consecrated this house which you have built, by putting my name there forever. My eyes and my heart will always be there.

###### v4
As for you, if you walk before me as David your father walked, with _integrity of heart_ ^[Literally "in blamelessness of heart"] and with uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded you, _and if_ you keep my ordinances and my judgments,

###### v5
then I will establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, as I promised David your father, saying, 'A man will not be cut off for you from upon the throne of Israel.'

###### v6
"If ever you or any of your descendants ^[Or "children"] turn from _following_ me and do not keep my commandments _and_ my ordinances that I have set before you and you go and serve other gods and bow down to them,

###### v7
then I will cut Israel off from the face of the land that I have given to them, _even_ the house which I have consecrated for my name I will cast away from my face; and Israel shall become a proverb and an object of taunting among all the peoples.

###### v8
This house shall become a heap of ruins; all those passing by will be appalled by it and hiss, and they will say, 'On what account did Yahweh do this to this land and to this house?'

###### v9
And they will say, 'Because they have forsaken Yahweh their God who brought their ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] out from the land of Egypt and they embraced other gods and bowed down to them and served them. Therefore, Yahweh brought on them all of this disaster.'"

###### v10
It happened at the end of twenty years _in_ which Solomon had built the two houses, the house of Yahweh and the house of the king,

###### v11
_since_ Hiram king of Tyre had supplied Solomon with wood of cedar and with wood of cypresses and with the gold according to all his desire, then King Solomon gave twenty cities in the land of the Galilee to Hiram.

###### v12
So Hiram went out from Tyre to see the cities that Solomon had given him, but they were not right in his eyes.

###### v13
So he said, "What _are_ these cities that you have given to me, my brother?" _So they are called the land of Cabul until this day_. ^[Literally "So he called them the land of Cabul up to this day"]

###### v14
Then Hiram sent to the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold.

###### v15
This _is_ the account of the forced labor that King Solomon conscripted to build the house of Yahweh and his house, the Millo, the walls of Jerusalem, Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer.

###### v16
Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had gone up and captured Gezer and burnt it with fire. He had also killed the Canaanites who were living in the city and had given it as a dowry to his daughter, the wife of Solomon.

###### v17
Solomon rebuilt Gezer and Lower Beth-Horon,

###### v18
_as well as_ Baalath and Tamar in the wilderness in the land;

###### v19
and _he also built_ all of the storage cities which were Solomon's, the cities _for_ the chariots, the cities _for_ the cavalry, and all of Solomon's desire that he wanted ^[Or "desired"] to build in Jerusalem and in Lebanon and in all the land of his dominion.

###### v20
All of the people who were remaining from the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites who _were_ not of the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"]

###### v21
their children who remained after them in the land, whom the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] were not able to completely destroy, Solomon conscripted them for forced labor, until this very day.

###### v22
But from the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] Solomon did not make a slave, but they _were_ the men of war, his officers, his commanders, his captains, and the commanders of his chariots and his cavalry.

###### v23
These _were_ the commanders of the overseers who _were_ over the work for Solomon, five hundred and fifty, ruling over the people doing the work.

###### v24
As soon as the daughter of Pharaoh went up from the city of David to her house which he ^[That is, Solomon] built for her, then he built the Millo.

###### v25
Solomon sacrificed three times a year: burnt offerings and fellowship offerings on the altar that he had built to Yahweh, and he offered incense with it before Yahweh; and so he completed the house.

###### v26
King Solomon also built a fleet of ships at Ezion-Geber which _is_ near Elath on the shore of the _Red Sea_ ^[Literally "sea of reed"] in the land of Edom.

###### v27
Hiram sent his servants with the fleet of ships, _sailors_ ^[Literally "men of ships"] who knew the sea, with the servants of Solomon.

###### v28
They went to Ophir and imported from there four hundred and twenty talents of gold, and they brought it to King Solomon.