---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 16
---

[[1 Kgs-15|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-17|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The word of Yahweh came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,

###### v2
"Because I exalted you from the dust and I made you a leader over my people Israel, but you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and you caused my people Israel to sin, to provoke me with their sins,

###### v3
I am now _about to_ consume Baasha and his house. I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

###### v4
Those who die for Baasha in the city, the dogs will eat; those who die for him in the field, the birds of the heavens will eat."

###### v5
The remainder of the acts of Baasha, what he did, and his powerful deeds, are they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v6
Baasha slept with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] and was buried in Tirzah, and Elah his son became king in his place.

###### v7
Moreover, the word of Yahweh came to Baasha and to his house by the hand of Jehu the son of Hanani the prophet, because of all the evil that he did in the eyes of Yahweh by provoking him with the work of his hands, by being like the house of Jeroboam; and he destroyed him.

###### v8
In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha became king over Israel for two years.

###### v9
His servant Zimri the commander of half of the chariots conspired against him. Now he had been in Tirzah drinking _himself_ drunk in the house of Arza who was over the palace in Tirzah.

###### v10
Zimri came and struck him down and killed him in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah and became king in his place.

###### v11
It happened that as soon as he became king, at the moment he sat on his throne, he killed all of the house of Baasha. He left _no males_ ^[Literally "no one for him who urinated against a wall"] _among_ his kindred or _any of_ his friends.

###### v12
So Zimri destroyed all of the house of Baasha according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke against Baasha by the hand of Jehu the prophet

###### v13
because of all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son which they committed and which they caused Israel to sin by provoking Yahweh the God of Israel with their idols.

###### v14
The remainder of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v15
In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah. Now the army was encamping against Gibbethon which belonged to the Philistines.

###### v16
The encamping army heard that Zimri had conspired and moreover had killed the king, ^[That is, Elah] so they made Omri the commander of the army of Israel king over all Israel in the camp on that day.

###### v17
Then Omri went up and all Israel with him from Gibbethon, and they besieged Tirzah.

###### v18
It happened that when Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went to the citadel fortress of the house of the king, and he burnt the house of the king over him with fire so that he died.

###### v19
_This happened_ because of his sin which he committed by doing evil in the eyes of Yahweh, by going the way of Jeroboam and in his sin which he did by causing Israel to sin.

###### v20
The remainder of the acts of Zimri and his conspiracy which he made, _are_ they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v21
At that time, the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people went after Tibni the son of Ginath to make him king, and the other half went after Omri.

###### v22
The people who went after Omri overcame the people who went after Tibni the son of Ginath, so that he died and Omri became king.

###### v23
In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri became king over Israel _for_ twelve years. He reigned in Tirzah six years,

###### v24
then bought the hill of Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver, fortified the hill, and called the name of the city Samaria that he built after Shemer, the owner of the hill.

###### v25
But Omri did evil in the eyes of Yahweh more than all who were before him.

###### v26
He went in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sins that he caused Israel to sin by provoking Yahweh the God of Israel with their idols.

###### v27
The remainder of the acts of Omri that he did and his powerful deeds, are they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v28
Omri slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and he was buried in Samaria, and Ahab his son became king in his place.

###### v29
Now Ahab son of Omri became king over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah. Ahab son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years.

###### v30
But Ahab son of Omri did evil in the eyes of Yahweh more than all who were before him.

###### v31
_If it wasn't enough that he went_ ^[Literally "It happened that it was trivial his going"] after the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, he also took as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal the king of the Sidonians. He went and served Baal and bowed down to him.

###### v32
And he built an altar to Baal in the house of Baal which he had built in Samaria.

###### v33
Ahab also made the sacred pole, and _he continued to provoke_ ^[Literally "Ahab added to make to provoke"] Yahweh the God of Israel more than all the kings of Israel who were before him.

###### v34
In his days, Hiel the Bethelite rebuilt Jericho; at the cost of Abiram his firstborn he laid its foundation, and at the cost of Segub his younger sibling, he set up its gates, according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke by the hand of Joshua the son of Nun.