---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 14
---

[[1 Kgs-13|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-15|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
At that time, Abijah son of Jeroboam became ill.

###### v2
Jeroboam said to his wife, "Please get up and disguise yourself so that they will not know that you _are_ the wife of Jeroboam, and go _to_ Shiloh. Look, Ahijah the prophet is there, and he spoke concerning me _before I became_ king over this people.

###### v3
You must take ten loaves of bread in your hand and cakes and a jar of honey, and you must go to him. He shall tell you what will happen to the boy."

###### v4
The wife of Jeroboam did so. She got up, went _to_ Shiloh, and came _to_ the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah was not able to see, for _his eyes were fixed_ ^[Literally "his eyes stood"] because of his old age.

###### v5
Then Yahweh said to Ahijah, "Look, the wife of Jeroboam _is_ coming to seek a word from you about her son, for he _is_ ill. _Thus and so_ ^[Literally "As this and as this"] you shall say to her. When she comes, she _will be_ disguising herself."

###### v6
It happened at the moment Ahijah heard the sound of her footsteps coming through the doorway, he said, "Come _in_, wife of Jeroboam. Why _are_ you making yourself unrecognizable? I have been sent a hard _message_ for you:

###### v7
Go, tell Jeroboam, 'Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: "Because I raised you from the midst of the people and I made you leader over my people Israel,

###### v8
I tore the kingdom from the house of David and I gave it to you. But you were not like my servant David who kept my commandments, and who went after me with all his heart, to do only _what is_ right in my eyes.

###### v9
But you did more evil than all who were before you. You have gone and made for yourself other gods and molten idols to provoke me, but me you have _completely disregarded_. ^[Literally "hurled behind your back"]

###### v10
Therefore, look, I am about to bring disaster upon the house of Jeroboam, and I will cut off _males_ ^[Literally "those who urinate against a wall"] from Jeroboam, bond or free, in Israel. I will burn after the house of Jeroboam as one burns after the manure, until it is finished.

###### v11
He who dies for Jeroboam in the city, the dogs will eat. He who dies in the open field, the birds from the heavens will eat, for Yahweh has spoken _it_."'

###### v12
As for you, get up. Go to your house. When your feet enter the city, the child will die.

###### v13
All of Israel will mourn for him, and they will bury him. This one alone will come to a tomb for Jeroboam, because a good thing has been found in him by Yahweh the God of Israel in the house of Israel.

###### v14
Yahweh will raise up a king for himself over Israel who will even now cut off the house of Jeroboam this day.

###### v15
Yahweh will strike Israel as one shakes the reed plant in the water, and he will root Israel up from this good land that he gave to their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"] He will scatter them beyond the River ^[That is, the Euphrates] because they have made their sacred poles _which are_ provoking Yahweh.

###### v16
He will give up Israel because of the sin of Jeroboam which he sinned and which he caused Israel to sin."

###### v17
Then the wife of Jeroboam got up, went, and came to Tirzah. _As_ she _was_ coming to the threshold of the house, the boy died.

###### v18
They buried him and all of Israel mourned for him, according to the word of Yahweh which he had spoken by the hand of his servant Ahijah the prophet.

###### v19
The remainder of the acts of Jeroboam, how he fought and how he reigned, behold, they _are_ written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel.

###### v20
The days which Jeroboam reigned were twenty-two years, and he slept with his ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"] Then Nadab his son became king in place of him.

###### v21
Now Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. He was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which, from all of the tribes of Israel, Yahweh chose to place his name. And the name of his mother _was_ Naamah the Ammonitess.

###### v22
But Judah did evil in the eyes of Yahweh, and they annoyed him more than their fathers ^[Or "ancestors"] did with their sins that they had committed.

###### v23
They also built for themselves high places and stone pillars and sacred poles on every high hill and under every green tree.

###### v24
There were also male shrine prostitutes in the land, and they did according to all the abominations of the nations which Yahweh had driven out from before the _Israelites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"]

###### v25
It happened in the fifth year of King Rehoboam that Shishak the king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem,

###### v26
and he took the treasures of the house of Yahweh, and he took all the treasures of the king's house. He took the small gold shields that Solomon had made,

###### v27
so King Rehoboam made small copper shields in place of them and _entrusted them_ ^[Literally "he assigned on the hand"] to the commanders of the royal guard who keep the doorway of the king's house.

###### v28
Whenever the king came _to_ the house of Yahweh, the royal guard carried them and brought them back to the alcove room of the royal guard.

###### v29
The remainder of the acts of Rehoboam and all that he did, are they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v30
There was always war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam.

###### v31
Then Rehoboam slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and he was buried with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of David. The name of his mother _was_ Naamah the Ammonitess. Abijam his son became king in his place.