---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 3
---

[[1 Kgs-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Solomon intermarried with Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and he took the daughter of Pharaoh and brought her to the city of David until he finished building his house, the house of Yahweh, and the walls of Jerusalem all around.

###### v2
But the people _were_ sacrificing on the high places, for the house for the name of Yahweh had not _yet_ been built in those days.

###### v3
Solomon loved Yahweh, by walking in the statutes of David his father; only he _was_ sacrificing and offering incense on the high places.

###### v4
So the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice, for the great high place _was_ there. Solomon used to offer a thousand burnt offerings on that altar.

###### v5
Yahweh appeared to Solomon at Gibeon in a dream at night, and God said, "Ask what I should give to you."

###### v6
Then Solomon said, "You have shown great loyal love with your servant David my father, as he walked before you in faithfulness and in righteousness and in uprightness of heart with you. You have shown for him this great loyal love, and you have given a son to him who is sitting on his throne as _it is_ this day.

###### v7
So then, O Yahweh, you are my God. You have made your servant king in place of David my father _though_ I _am_ a young boy. I do not know going out or coming in.

###### v8
Your servant _is_ in the middle of your people whom you have chosen; a great people who cannot be counted or numbered because of abundance.

###### v9
Give to your servant a listening heart to judge your people, to discern between good and bad, because who is able to judge this, your difficult people?"

###### v10
The word was good in the eyes of _the_ Lord that Solomon had asked this thing.

###### v11
And God said to him, "Because you have asked this thing and you did not ask for yourself _a long life_ ^[Literally "many days"] and you did not ask riches for yourself and you did not ask for the life of your enemies, but you have asked for yourself _the ability to make wise judgments_; ^[Literally "understanding to hear judgment"]

###### v12
behold, I do hereby do according to your word. I hereby give you a wise and discerning heart; there was no one like you before you, nor afterwards will one like you arise.

###### v13
Too, what you have not asked I give to you: both riches and honor, _so that_ no man among the kings will be like you all of your days.

###### v14
If you will walk in my ways by keeping my statutes and my commandments, as David your father walked, then I will lengthen your days."

###### v15
Then Solomon awoke, and look, _it was_ a dream, and he came _to_ Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the covenant of _the_ Lord, and he offered burnt offerings and presented fellowship offerings, and he held a feast for all of his servants.

###### v16
Then two prostitutes came to the king, and they stood before him.

###### v17
The one woman said, "Please my lord, I and this woman are living in one house, and I gave birth, with her in the house.

###### v18
It happened on the third day _after_ my giving birth, this woman also gave birth, and we _were_ together. There was not anyone with us in the house, only the two of us _were_ in the house.

###### v19
Then the son of this woman died _in the_ night because she laid on him.

###### v20
So she got up in the middle of the night, and she took my son from beside me while your servant was asleep, and she put him in her lap, and she put her dead son in my lap.

###### v21
When I got up in the morning to nurse my son, behold, he was dead! When I looked closely at him in the morning, behold, it was not my son whom I had borne."

###### v22
Then the other woman said, "No, for my son _is_ the living one, and your son _is_ the dead one." The other kept on saying, "No, for your son _is_ the dead one, and my son _is_ the living one," and so they argued in front of the king.

###### v23
Then the king said, "This one _is_ saying, 'This _is_ my son, the living one, but your son _is_ the dead one,' and the other one keeps saying, 'But no! Your son _is_ the dead one, and my son _is_ living!'"

###### v24
So the king said, "Bring me a sword," and they brought the sword before the king.

###### v25
Then the king said, "Divide the living child into two, and give half to the one and half to the other."

###### v26
Then the woman whose son _was_ the living one spoke to the king because her compassion was aroused for her son, and she said, "Please, my lord, give her the living child, but certainly do not kill him!" The other one _was_ saying, "As for me, so for you! Divide _him_!"

###### v27
Then the king answered and said, "Give the living child to her, and do not kill him; she _is_ his mother."

###### v28
When all of Israel heard the judgment that the king had rendered, they _stood in awe_ ^[Literally "feared the face"] of the king, because they realized that the wisdom of God was in him to execute justice.