---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 11
---

[[1 Kgs-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
King Solomon loved many foreign women: the daughter of Pharaoh, Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, Hittite;

###### v2
from the nations which Yahweh had said to the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] "You shall not _marry them_, ^[Literally "go into them"] and they shall not _marry you_. ^[Literally "go into you"] They will certainly turn your heart after other gods." But Solomon clung to them to love.

###### v3
He had seven hundred princesses and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned his heart.

###### v4
It happened at the time of Solomon's old age that his wives guided his heart after other gods, and his heart was not fully with Yahweh his God as the heart of David his father _had been_.

###### v5
Solomon went after Ashtoreth the god of _the_ Sidonians and after Molech the abhorrence of the Ammonites.

###### v6
So Solomon did evil in the eyes of Yahweh and did not fully _follow_ after Yahweh as David his father.

###### v7
At that time, Solomon built a high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab, on the mountain which _faces_ ^[Literally "_was_ on the face of"] Jerusalem and for Molech, the abomination of the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"]

###### v8
Thus he did for all of his foreign wives, offering incense and sacrificing to their gods.

###### v9
Yahweh was angry with Solomon, for he had turned his heart from Yahweh, the God of Israel who had appeared to him twice.

###### v10
And he had commanded him concerning this matter not to go after other gods, but he did not keep that which Yahweh commanded.

###### v11
So Yahweh said to Solomon, "Because this was with you, and you did not keep my covenant and my ordinances which I have commanded you, I will certainly tear the kingdom from you, and I will give it to your servant.

###### v12
However, I will not do it in your days, for the sake of David your father; from the hand of your son I will tear it _away_.

###### v13
Yet all of the kingdom I will not tear _away_. I will give one tribe to your son for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem which I have chosen."

###### v14
Then Yahweh raised an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite, from the descendants of that king in Edom.

###### v15
It had happened that when David was at Edom, Joab the commander of the army went up to bury the slain, and he killed every male in Edom.

###### v16
For Joab and all Israel had stayed there six months until he exterminated every male in Edom.

###### v17
But Hadad himself had fled, and some Edomite men from the servants of his father with him, to go to Egypt, when Hadad _was_ a young boy.

###### v18
They had set out from Midian until they came to Paran where they took men from Paran with them and came _to_ Egypt, _to_ Pharaoh king of Egypt. He gave to him a house and assigned food for him and gave him land.

###### v19
Hadad found great favor in the eyes of Pharaoh, and he gave him the sister of his wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen, as wife.

###### v20
The sister of Tahpenes bore Genubath his son for him, and Tahpenes weaned him in the middle of the house of Pharaoh. Genubath was _in_ the house of Pharaoh in the midst of the children ^[Or "sons"] of Pharaoh.

###### v21
Now Hadad heard in Egypt that David had slept with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] and that Joab the commander of the army was dead. Then Hadad said to Pharaoh, "Send me away that I may go to my land."

###### v22
Pharaoh said to him, "What do you lack with me that you now _are_ seeking to go to your land?" He said, "No, but you must surely send me away."

###### v23
God had _also_ raised Rezon the son of Eliada as an adversary against him, who had fled from Hadadezer the king of Zobah, his master.

###### v24
He gathered men around him and he became the commander of bandits. When David killed _some of_ them, they went to Damascus and settled _there_, ^[Literally "in it"] and they reigned in Damascus.

###### v25
He was an adversary for Israel all the days of Solomon, and _along with_ the evil that Hadad _did_, he detested Israel _while_ he reigned over Aram.

###### v26
Now Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite from Zeredah (now the name of his mother _was_ Zeruah, a widow woman), a servant of Solomon _rebelled against the king_. ^[Literally "raised a hand against the king"]

###### v27
This _is_ the reason that he rebelled against the king: _when_ Solomon built the Millo, he closed the gap of the city of David his father.

###### v28
Now the man Jeroboam _was_ a man of ability, and Solomon saw that the young man _was a diligent worker_, ^[Literally "was a doer of work he"] so he appointed him over all of the forced labor for the house of Joseph.

###### v29
It happened at that time that Jeroboam went out from Jerusalem, and he accidentally met Ahijah the Shilonite the prophet on the way. Now he had clothed himself with new clothing. While the two of them _were_ alone in the field,

###### v30
Ahijah took hold of the new cloak which _was_ on him and tore it into twelve pieces.

###### v31
Then he said to Jeroboam, "Take for yourself ten pieces, for thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: 'Behold, I _am about_ to tear the kingdom from the hand of Solomon, and I will give to you ten tribes,

###### v32
but one tribe shall be for him, for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel;

###### v33
because he has forsaken me, and they bowed down to Ashtoreth, the god of _the_ Sidonians, to Chemosh, the god of Moab, and to Molech, the god of the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] They did not walk in my ways to do right in my eyes, my ordinances, or my judgments, as _did_ David his father.

###### v34
But I will not take all of the kingdom from his hand, but I will make him a leader all the days of his life for the sake of David my servant whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my ordinances.

###### v35
But I will take the kingship from the hand of his son, and I will give ten tribes to you.

###### v36
To his son I will give one tribe in order to be a lamp for my servant David, always before my face, in Jerusalem the city in which I have chosen to place my name.

###### v37
You I will take, and you shall reign over all your soul desires, and you shall be king over Israel.

###### v38
It shall be that if you listen to all that I command you and you walk in my ways and you do right in my eyes by keeping my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did, then I will be with you, and I will build an enduring house for you as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you.

###### v39
I will punish the offspring of David on account of this; however, not always.'"

###### v40
Then Solomon sought to kill Jeroboam, but Jeroboam got up and fled to Egypt, to Shishak the king of Egypt, and he remained in Egypt until the death of Solomon.

###### v41
Now the rest of the acts of Solomon and all that he did and his wisdom; _are_ they not written on the scroll of the acts of Solomon?

###### v42
All the days that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all of Israel _were_ forty years.

###### v43
Then Solomon slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in the city of David his father, and Rehoboam his son became king in his place.