---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 22
---

[[1 Kgs-21|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
They lived three years, and there was no war between Aram and Israel.

###### v2
It happened in the third year, Jehoshaphat king of Judah went down to the king of Israel,

###### v3
and the king of Israel said to his servants, "Do you know Ramoth-Gilead belongs to us, and we _are_ doing nothing about taking it from the hand of the king of Aram?"

###### v4
Then he said to Jehoshaphat, "Will you go with me to the battle for Ramoth-Gilead?" Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "_I am like you_; ^[Literally "Like I am, like you are"] _my people are like your people_; ^[Literally "like my people, like your people"] _my horses are like your horses_." ^[Literally "like my horses, like your horses"]

###### v5
Jehoshaphat also said to the king of Israel, "Please inquire for the word of Yahweh today."

###### v6
Then the king of Israel assembled the prophets, about four hundred men, and he said to them, "Shall I go against Ramoth-Gilead for the battle, or should I refrain?" Then they said, "Go up, for the Lord will give it into the hand of the king."

###### v7
So Jehoshaphat said, "Is there no prophet of Yahweh here that we might still inquire from him?"

###### v8
Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "_There is_ still one man to inquire from Yahweh, but I despise him, for he never prophesies _anything_ good concerning me, but only bad: Micaiah the son of Imlah." Then Jehoshaphat said, "The king should not say so."

###### v9
The king of Israel summoned a certain court official, and he said, "Quickly fetch Micaiah son of Imlah."

###### v10
The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah _were_ each sitting on his throne, dressed _in their_ robes, at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, _with_ all the prophets prophesying before them.

###### v11
Zedekiah son of Kenaanah made horns of iron for himself and said, "Thus says Yahweh: 'With these you shall gore the Arameans until finishing them.'"

###### v12
All of the prophets _were_ likewise prophesying, saying, "Go up _to_ Ramoth-Gilead and triumph, and Yahweh will give it into the hand of the king."

###### v13
Then the messenger who had gone to summon Micaiah said to him, "Please now, the words of the prophet are _unanimously_ ^[Literally "one mouth"] favorable to the king. Please let your words be as one word with them, and speak favorably."

###### v14
Then Micaiah said, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] surely only as Yahweh speaks to me, that will I speak."

###### v15
When he came to the king, the king asked him, "Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-Gilead to the battle, or shall we refrain?" He said to him, "Go up and triumph, and Yahweh will give _it_ into the hand of the king."

###### v16
Then the king said to him, "How many times must I make you swear that you shall not tell me _anything_ but truth in the name of Yahweh?"

###### v17
So he said, "I saw all of Israel scattering to the mountains, like the sheep without a shepherd. Yahweh also said, 'There are no masters for these, let them return in peace, each to his house.'"

###### v18
Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not say to you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but disaster?"

###### v19
And he ^[That is, Micaiah] said, "Therefore, hear the word of Yahweh. I saw Yahweh sitting on his throne with all the hosts of heaven standing beside him from his right hand and from his left _hand_.

###### v20
And Yahweh said, 'Who will entice Ahab so that he will go up and fall at Ramoth-Gilead?' Then _this one was saying one thing and the other one was saying another_. ^[Literally "this one said in thus and this one was saying in thus"]

###### v21
Then a spirit came out and stood before Yahweh and said, 'I will entice him,' and Yahweh said to him, 'How?'

###### v22
He said, 'I will go out and I will be a false spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.' And he ^[That is, Yahweh] said, 'You shall entice and succeed, go out and do so.'

###### v23
So then, see that Yahweh has placed a false spirit in the mouth of all of these your prophets, and Yahweh has spoken disaster concerning you."

###### v24
Then Zedekiah son of Kenaanah came near and slapped Micaiah on the cheek and said, "When did the Spirit of Yahweh pass from me to speak with you?"

###### v25
Then Micaiah said, "Behold, you _are about to_ see on that day when you go _from room to room_ ^[Literally "private room in private room"] to hide."

###### v26
The king of Israel said, "Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the commander of the city and to Jehoash the son of the king;

###### v27
and say, 'Thus says the king: "Put this _fellow in_ the house of imprisonment and feed him reduced rations of food and water until I come in peace."'"

###### v28
Then Micaiah said, "If you indeed return in peace, then Yahweh has not spoken with me." Then he said, "Let all the peoples hear!"

###### v29
Then the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up _to_ Ramoth-Gilead.

###### v30
Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "_I will_ disguise myself and go into the battle, but you wear your robes." So the king of Israel disguised himself, and he went into the battle.

###### v31
The king of Aram commanded his thirty-two chariot commanders, saying, "You shall not fight with small or great, but only against the king of Israel, him alone!"

###### v32
When the chariot commanders saw Jehoshaphat, they said, "Surely he _is_ the king of Israel," and they turned to fight against him, so Jehoshaphat called out.

###### v33
When the chariot commanders saw that it _was_ not the king of Israel, they turned away from him.

###### v34
But another man drew his bow fully and struck the king of Israel between the armor scales and the breastplate; so he said to his chariot driver, "Turn _the chariot_ ^[Literally "your hand"] and bring me out from the camp, for I am wounded."

###### v35
The battle intensified on that day, and the king was being propped up in the chariot opposite Aram, but he died in the evening, and the blood of the wound ran out to the floor of the chariot.

###### v36
Then the shout passed through the camp about sunset, saying, "Each man to his city and each to his land!"

###### v37
So the king died, and _they brought him_ ^[Literally "and he went"] to Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria.

###### v38
They washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked his blood (now, the prostitutes washed themselves _there_) according to the word of Yahweh which he had spoken.

###### v39
The remainder of the acts of Ahab and all that he did, and the ivory palace and all the cities that he built, _are_ they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v40
So Ahab slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and Ahaziah his son became king in his place.

###### v41
Jehoshaphat the son of Asa became king over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.

###### v42
Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Azubah daughter of Shilhi.

###### v43
He walked in all of the way of Asa his father, and he did not turn aside from it, doing right in the eyes of Yahweh. ^[[[1 Kgs-22#v44|1 Kings 22:44]] begins here in the Hebrew Bible] Only he did not remove the high places; the people _were_ still sacrificing and burning incense on the high places.

###### v44
 ^[[[1 Kgs-22#v44|1 Kings 22:44– 53]][[1 Kgs-22#v45|]][[1 Kgs-22#v46|]][[1 Kgs-22#v47|]][[1 Kgs-22#v48|]][[1 Kgs-22#v49|]][[1 Kgs-22#v50|]][[1 Kgs-22#v51|]][[1 Kgs-22#v52|]][[1 Kgs-22#v53|]] in the English Bible is 22:45–54 in the Hebrew Bible] But, Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.

###### v45
The remainder of the acts of Jehoshaphat, his powerful _deeds_ he did, and how he fought, are they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v46
The remainder of the male shrine prostitutes who were left over in the days of Asa his father he exterminated from the land.

###### v47
There was not a king in Edom; a governor _served_ as king.

###### v48
Jehoshaphat built ^[According to the reading tradition(_Qere_); what is written (_Kethib_) is "ten"] ships of the Tarshish _type_ to go to Ophir for the gold; but he did not go because the ships were destroyed at Ezion-Geber.

###### v49
Then Ahaziah son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, "Let my servants go with your servants in the ships," but Jehoshaphat was not willing.

###### v50
And Jehoshaphat slept with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] and was buried with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of David his ancestor, ^[Or "father"] and Joram his son became king in his place.

###### v51
Ahaziah son of Ahab became king over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years.

###### v52
He did evil in the eyes of Yahweh, and he went in the way of his father and his mother and in the way of Jeroboam son of Nebat who caused Israel to sin.

###### v53
He served Baal and bowed down to him; and he provoked Yahweh the God of Israel according to all that his father did.