---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 17
---

[[1 Kgs-16|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-18|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Elijah the Tishbite from Tishbe of Gilead said to Ahab, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] the God of Israel before whom I stand, there shall surely not be dew nor rain these years _except by my command_." ^[Literally "except at the word of my mouth"]

###### v2
Then the word of Yahweh came to him, saying,

###### v3
"Go from this place and turn to the east; you must hide yourself in the Wadi ^[A valley that is dry most of the year, but contains a stream during the rainy season] Kerith _which faces the Jordan_. ^[Literally "on the face of the Jordan"]

###### v4
It shall be that you shall drink from the wadi, ^[A valley that is dry most of the year, but contains a stream during the rainy season] and I have commanded the crows to sustain you there."

###### v5
So he went and did according to the word of Yahweh. He went and stayed in the Wadi ^[A valley that is dry most of the year, but contains a stream during the rainy season] Kerith _which faces the Jordan_. ^[Literally "on the face of the Jordan"]

###### v6
The crows _were_ bringing bread and meat in the morning for him and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the wadi. ^[A valley that is dry most of the year, but contains a stream during the rainy season]

###### v7
It happened _after a while_ ^[Literally "from the end of days"] that the wadi ^[A seasonal stream that is often dry] dried up, because there was no rain in the land.

###### v8
Then the word of Yahweh came to him, saying,

###### v9
"Get up and go to Zarephath which belongs to Sidon and stay there. Look, I have commanded a woman there, a widow, to sustain you."

###### v10
So he arose and went to Zarephath and came to the gate of the city. There _was_ a widow woman gathering wood, so he called to her, and he said, "Please bring a little water for me in a vessel so that I can drink."

###### v11
She went to fetch _it_, and he called to her and said, "Please bring me a morsel of bread in your hand."

###### v12
She said, "_As Yahweh your God lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh your God"] surely I do not have a cake, _but only a handful of flour_ ^[Literally "except that which fills a hand with flour"] in the jar and a little olive oil in the jug. Here I _am_ gathering a few pieces of wood, and I will go and prepare it for me and my son, that we might eat it and die."

###### v13
Elijah said to her, "Don't be afraid. Go and do according to your word; only make for me a small bread cake from it first, and bring it out to me. Make it for yourself and for your son afterward.

###### v14
For thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: 'The jar of flour will not be emptied and the jug of olive oil will not run out until the day Yahweh gives rain on the surface of the earth.'"

###### v15
So she went and did according to the word of Elijah; then _both_ she and he ate with her household for many days.

###### v16
The jar of flour was not emptied and the jug of olive oil did not run out, according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke by the hand of Elijah.

###### v17
It happened after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill; and his illness was very severe until there was no breath left in him.

###### v18
She said to Elijah, "_What do you have against me_, ^[Literally "What for me and for you"] O man of God, _that_ you have come to me to make known my guilt and to cause my son to die?"

###### v19
Then he said to her, "Give me your son." He took him from her lap and carried him up to the upper room where he was staying, and he laid him on his bed.

###### v20
Then he called to Yahweh and said, "O Yahweh my God, are you also causing evil to come upon the widow with whom I _am_ dwelling as an alien by causing her son to die?"

###### v21
He stretched himself out on the child three times and called to Yahweh and said, "O Yahweh my God, please let the life of this child return within him."

###### v22
Yahweh listened to the voice of Elijah, and the life of the child returned within him, and he lived.

###### v23
Elijah then took the child and brought him down from the upper room to the house and gave him to his mother. Elijah said, "Look, your son _is_ alive."

###### v24
Then the woman said to Elijah, "Now this I know, that you _are_ a man of God and the word of Yahweh in your mouth _is_ truth."