---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 7
---

[[1 Kgs-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Solomon built his house _over_ thirteen years, and he finished all of his house.

###### v2
He built the House of the Forest of Lebanon; one hundred cubits its length, fifty cubits its width, and thirty cubits its height, on four rows of cedar pillars and cedar beams atop the pillars.

###### v3
It was covered with cedar above, and the supporting beams which _were_ on the forty-five pillars, fifteen _to_ the row.

###### v4
_There were_ three rows of specially designed windows; _with_ window to window three times.

###### v5
All of the doorways and the doorframes _had_ four-sided casings, with opening to opposite opening three times.

###### v6
The hall of pillars he made fifty cubits _in_ its length and thirty cubits _in_ its width, and a porch _was_ _in front of them_, ^[Literally "on their face"] with pillars and an overhang _in front of them_. ^[Literally "on their face"]

###### v7
He made the hall of the throne where he _would_ pronounce judgment, the hall of justice, and _it was_ covered with cedar from the floor to the rafters. ^[Hebrew "floor," but other ancient versions have "rafters"]

###### v8
His house where he would live in the next courtyard on the inside of the porch was like this work, and he would make a house like this porch for the daughter of Pharaoh whom Solomon had taken _as wife_.

###### v9
All of these _were_ of precious stones, according to the measurement of dressed stone, sawn with a saw _on all sides_; ^[Literally "on _the_ inside and on _the_ outside"] from _the_ foundation up to the eaves and from _the_ outside up to the great courtyard.

###### v10
_The_ foundation _was of_ precious stones, _and_ large stones of ten cubits and stones of eight cubits

###### v11
with precious stones above, _just the right size_, ^[Literally "according to _the_ measurement of dressed stones"] and cedar.

###### v12
The great courtyard all around had three rows of dressed stones and a row of cedar beams; for _both_ the courtyard of the inner house ^[Or "temple"] of Yahweh and for the porch of the house.

###### v13
King Solomon invited and received Hiram from Tyre.

###### v14
He _was_ the son of a widow woman from the tribe of Naphtali, and his father _was_ a man of Tyre, an artisan of bronze. He was filled with wisdom and with ability and with the knowledge to do all the work with the bronze. And he came to King Solomon, and he did all of his work.

###### v15
He cast the two pillars _out of_ bronze; eighteen cubits _was_ the height of the first, and a cord of twelve cubits would encircle the second pillar.

###### v16
He made two capitals to place on the tops of the pillars _out of_ molten bronze; the first capital _was_ five cubits _in_ height, and the second capital _was_ five cubits _in_ height.

###### v17
A network of latticework _and_ wreaths of chainwork with small chains _were_ for the capitals which _were_ on top of the pillars; seven for the first capital and seven for the second capital.

###### v18
He also made the pillars with two rows around on the lattice, each to cover the capitals which _were_ on top, _out of_ the pomegranate-shaped ornaments, and thus he did for the second capital _as well_.

###### v19
And _on_ the capitals which _were_ on top of the pillars in the porch _were_ works of lilies four cubits _high_.

###### v20
And capitals _were_ on the two pillars above near the bulging section which was beside the lattice, and two hundred pomegranate-shaped ornaments _were_ in rows all around on the second capital.

###### v21
He set up the pillars for the porch of the main hall; he erected the pillar on the right and called its name Jakin, and he set up the pillar on the left and called its name Boaz.

###### v22
On the top of the pillars _was_ a work of lilies; and so the work of the pillars _was_ finished.

###### v23
He also made the molten ^[That is, cast from molten bronze] sea, ten cubits _in diameter_, ^[Literally "from its edge up to its edge, round all around"] and five cubits _was_ its height. A measuring line of thirty cubits would encircle it all around.

###### v24
Gourds _were_ under its rim surrounding it all around; ten to the cubit, surrounding the sea all around with two rows of gourds, _which_ were cast when he cast the metal.

###### v25
_The sea_ was standing on twelve oxen, with three facing to the north, three facing to the west, three facing to the south, and three facing to the east. The sea _was_ on top of them, with all of their hindquarters _turned_ to the inside.

###### v26
Its thickness _was_ a handbreadth, but its rim _was_ as the work on the brim of a cup, _like the_ bud of a lily; it held two thousand baths.

###### v27
He made the ten stands of bronze; each stand _was_ four cubits long, four cubits wide, and three cubits in height.

###### v28
Now this _was_ the construction of the stands: there _were_ frames for them and frames between the crossbars,

###### v29
and on the frames which _were_ between the crossbars _were_ lions, oxen, and cherubim. On the crossbars both above and beneath the lions and oxen _were_ works of cascading wreaths.

###### v30
_There were_ four bronze wheels for each of the stands, with bronze axles; the four support pedestals for these _were_ under the basin, and the supports _were_ decorated on each side _with_ wreaths.

###### v31
Its opening from _the_ inside of the capital and above _was_ a cubit; its pedestal _was_ a round work of a cubit and a half; moreover, on its opening _were_ the carvings with four-sided frames, not circular.

###### v32
Four of the wheels _were_ underneath the frames, and the axles of the wheels _were_ on the stands. The height of each wheel _was_ a cubit and a half.

###### v33
The construction of the wheel _was_ like the construction of the wheel of the chariot; their axles, their rims, their spokes, and their naves _were_ all cast.

###### v34
The four supports _were_ the four corners of each stand, with the stand supporting it.

###### v35
On top of the stand _was_ half a cubit deep, circular all around, and on the top of the stand _were_ its supports and its frames.

###### v36
He engraved on the plates, on its supports, and on its frame cherubim, lions and images of a palm tree, according to the space for each, with wreaths all around.

###### v37
He made the ten stands like this in one cast, with the same measurement and shape for each of them.

###### v38
He also made ten bronze basins, _each_ holding forty baths; each basin _was_ four cubits, one basin on each of the ten stands.

###### v39
He placed five of the stands on the south side of the house and five on the north side of the house, and the sea he set on the southeast side of the house.

###### v40
Hiram also made the basins and the shovels and the bowls for drinking wine; and so Hiram finished doing all of the work _that he was to do_ ^[Literally "that he did"] for King Solomon in the house of Yahweh:

###### v41
the two pillars and the bowls of the capitals which _were_ atop the two pillars, and the two lattice works to cover the two bowls of the capitals which _were_ atop the pillars;

###### v42
and the four hundred pomegranate-shaped ornaments for the two lattice works, the two rows of pomegranate-shaped ornaments for each latticework to cover the two bowls of the capitals which _were_ on the surface of the pillars;

###### v43
and the ten stands and the ten basins on the stands;

###### v44
and the one sea and the twelve oxen under the sea;

###### v45
and the pots, the shovels, and the bowls for drinking wine. All the vessels of the tent which Hiram had made for King Solomon _for_ the house of Yahweh _were_ polished bronze.

###### v46
The king had cast them in the plain of the Jordan with the casting mold _set in_ the ground between Succoth and Zarethan.

###### v47
Solomon left all of the vessels _unweighed_ because of their very great abundance, so the weight of the bronze could not be determined.

###### v48
Solomon also made all of the vessels which _were_ in the house of Yahweh: the golden altar and the golden table on which _was_ the bread of the presence;

###### v49
as well as the five lampstands of beaten gold at the south and five lampstands at the north before the presence of the inner sanctuary, with the flower-shaped ornaments, the lamps, and the pair of tongs _all of gold_.

###### v50
The cups, the snuffers, the bowls for drinking wine, the bowls for the incense, and the firepans _were made from_ beaten gold; the facades for the doors of the inner house, for the _most holy place_, ^[Literally "holy of the holiest"] for the doors of the main hall of the temple _were of_ gold.

###### v51
_When_ all of the work which king Solomon did on the house of Yahweh was completed, Solomon brought out the holy objects of his father David, the silver and the gold and the vessels, _which_ he put in the treasury rooms of the house of Yahweh.