---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 4
---

[[1 Kgs-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
King Solomon was king over all Israel.

###### v2
Now these are the officials who were his: Azariah the son of Zadok _was_ the priest.

###### v3
Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, _were_ the secretaries; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud _was_ the recorder.

###### v4
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada _was_ over the army, and Zadok and Abiathar were priests.

###### v5
Azariah the son of Nathan _was_ over the governors, and Zabud the son of Nathan was a priest, an advisor to the king.

###### v6
Ahishar _was_ over the palace, and Adoniram the son of Abda _was_ over the forced labor.

###### v7
Solomon had twelve governors over all Israel, and they sustained the king and his palace, _each one was to sustain for each month of the year_. ^[Literally "a month in the year he was over one to sustain"]

###### v8
These _are_ their names: Ben-Hur _was_ in the hill country of Ephraim.

###### v9
Ben-Deker _was_ in Makaz and in Shaalbim and in Beth-Shemesh and Elon of Beth-Hanan.

###### v10
Ben-Hesed _was_ in the Arubbot; Socoh and all the land of Hepher _were_ his.

###### v11
Ben-Abinadab _was_ in all of Naphat of Dor; Taphath the daughter of Solomon was his wife.

###### v12
Baanah the son of Ahilud _was_ in Taanach and Megiddo and all Beth-Shean which _is_ beside Zarethan below Jezreel, of Beth-Shean up to Abel-Meholah up to the other side of Jokmeam.

###### v13
Ben-Geber _was_ in Ramoth-Gilead; the villages of Jair, the son of Manasseh which are in the Gilead _were_ his, and the region of Argob which _is_ in the Bashan, sixty great cities, with walls _having_ crossbars of bronze, _were_ his.

###### v14
Ahinadab the son of Iddo _was in_ Mahanaim.

###### v15
Ahimaaz _was_ in Naphtali; he moreover also had taken Basemath the daughter of Solomon as wife.

###### v16
Baanah the son of Hushai _was_ in Asher and Bealoth.

###### v17
Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah _was_ in Issachar.

###### v18
Shimei the son of Ela _was_ in Benjamin.

###### v19
Geber the son of Uri _was_ in the land of Gilead, the land of Sihon, the king of the Amorites, and of Og, the king of Bashan; one governor which _was_ over the land.

###### v20
Judah and Israel _were_ as many as the sand which is on the seashore in abundance, eating and drinking and rejoicing!

###### v21
 ^[[[1 Kgs-04#v21|1 Kings 4:21–5:18]] in the English Bible is 5:1–32 in the Hebrew Bible] Now Solomon was ruling over all the kingdoms from the River ^[That is, the Euphrates] _to_ the land of _the_ Philistines, and up to the border of Egypt, who _were_ bringing tribute and _were_ serving Solomon all the days of his life.

###### v22
The food of Solomon for one day was thirty dry measures of choice meal and sixty dry measures of flour;

###### v23
ten stall-fed oxen and twenty pasture-fed oxen and a hundred sheep, besides deer and buck gazelles and roebucks and well-fed fowls.

###### v24
For he _was_ ruling over all the west of the River ^[That is, the Euphrates] from Tiphsah up to Gaza, over all the kings west of the River; ^[That is, the Euphrates] and he had peace from every side all around.

###### v25
Judah and Israel lived in security, each man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan as far as Beersheba, all the days of Solomon.

###### v26
Now Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his war chariots and twelve thousand horsemen.

###### v27
These governors sustained King Solomon and all who came near to the table of King Solomon, each _in_ his month; they did not omit anything.

###### v28
The barley and the straw for the horses and for packhorses they brought to the place where they were, each according to his share.

###### v29
God gave wisdom to Solomon and very great discernment, as well as _breadth of understanding_, ^[Literally "width of heart"] as the sand which is on the edge of the seashore.

###### v30
The wisdom of Solomon was greater than the wisdom of all the people ^[Or "sons/children"] of _the_ east and more than all the wisdom of Egypt.

###### v31
He was wiser than all the men: Ethan the Ezrahite; Heman, Calcol, and Darda the children of Mahol; and _he was very well known_. ^[Literally "his name was among all the peoples around"]

###### v32
He spoke three thousand proverbs, and his songs were one thousand and five.

###### v33
He spoke concerning the trees, from the cedar which _is_ in Lebanon up to the hyssop which grows on the wall; he also spoke concerning the animals, concerning the birds, concerning the creeping things, and concerning the fish.

###### v34
They came from all the nations to hear the wisdom of Solomon; from all the kings of the earth who had heard _of_ his wisdom.