---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 8
---

[[1 Kgs-07|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-09|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
At that time, Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, all the heads of the tribes, and the leaders of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] of the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] before King Solomon, in order to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the city of David, that is, Zion.

###### v2
All the men of Israel assembled before King Solomon at the festival in the month of Ethnaim, that is, the seventh month.

###### v3
All the elders of Israel came, and the priests carried the ark.

###### v4
So they brought up the ark of Yahweh and the tent of assembly ^[Or "meeting"] and all of the holy vessels that _were_ in the tent; the priests and the Levites brought them up.

###### v5
King Solomon and all the assembly of Israel who were assembling with him in the presence of the ark _were_ sacrificing sheep and oxen that could not be counted nor numbered because of abundance.

###### v6
The priests brought the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to its place in the inner sanctuary of the house, to the _most holy place_, ^[Literally "holy of the holiest"] under the wings of the cherubim,

###### v7
for the cherubim _were_ spreading their wings over the place of the ark. The cherubim overshadowed the ark and its poles from above.

###### v8
The poles _were_ long, and the ends of the poles could be seen from the holy place _in front of_ ^[Literally "on the face of"] the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen _from_ the outside, and they are there until this day.

###### v9
There was not _anything_ in the ark _except_ ^[Hebrew "only"] the two tablets of stone which Moses had placed there at Horeb, where Yahweh _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] _a covenant_ with the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] after they went out from the land of Egypt.

###### v10
When the priests went out from the holy place, the cloud filled the house of Yahweh.

###### v11
The priests _were_ not able to stand to minister _because of the presence of_ ^[Literally "from _the_ face of"] the cloud, for the glory of Yahweh filled the house of Yahweh.

###### v12
Then Solomon said, "Yahweh has said that _he_ would dwell in the very thick cloud.

###### v13
I have certainly built a lofty house for you, a place for you to live forever."

###### v14
_Then_ the king turned his face around, and he blessed all of the assembly of Israel. (Now all the assembly of Israel was standing).

###### v15
Then he said, "Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel who has promised with his mouth _to_ David my father and fulfilled _by his oath_, ^[Literally "by his hand"] saying,

###### v16
'From the day that I brought out my people Israel from Egypt I have not chosen a city from all the tribes of Israel to build a house where my name might be, but I have chosen David to be over my people Israel.'

###### v17
_David my father desired_ ^[Literally "It had been with_in_ the heart of David my father"] to build a house for the name of Yahweh the God of Israel,

###### v18
but Yahweh said to David my father, 'Because _you desired_ ^[Literally "it was within your heart"] to build a house for my name, you did well in that it was within your heart.

###### v19
However, you will not build the house, but your son who has come from your loins, he shall build the house for my name.'

###### v20
Yahweh has carried out his promise which he had made; I have risen in place of David my father, and I sit on the throne of Israel as Yahweh promised, and I have built the house for the name of Yahweh the God of Israel.

###### v21
I have provided a place there for the ark, in which is the covenant which Yahweh made with our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] when He brought them out of the land of Egypt."

###### v22
Then Solomon stood before the altar of Yahweh in the presence of all of the assembly of Israel, and he spread out his hands _to_ the heavens,

###### v23
and he said, "O Yahweh, God of Israel, there is no god like you in the heavens above or on the earth beneath, keeping the covenant and the loyal love for your servants who are walking before you with all their heart.

###### v24
You have kept for your servant David my father what you promised to him, and you have spoken with your mouth, and with your hand you have fulfilled _it_ this very day.

###### v25
So then, O Yahweh, God of Israel, keep for your servant David my father what you promised to him, saying, 'For you, no man will be cut off from before me who _will be_ sitting on the throne of Israel, if only your sons keep their ways to walk before me just as you have walked before me.'

###### v26
So then, O God of Israel, please let your word be confirmed which you have promised ^[Or "spoken"] to your servant David my father.

###### v27
For will God really dwell on the earth? Behold, the heavens and the heaven of heavens could not contain you! _How could_ ^[Literally "Even that"] this house that I have built?

###### v28
You must regard the prayer of your servant and his plea! O Yahweh my God, listen to the pleading and to the prayer that your servant _is_ praying before you this day,

###### v29
so that your eyes _will_ be open to this house night and day, to the place which you said, 'My name will be there,' to hear the prayer that your servant prays toward this place.

###### v30
You must listen to the plea of your servant and your people Israel which they pray _toward_ this place; and you must hear from the place where you live, from heaven you must hear and you must forgive.

###### v31
_If_ a man sins against his neighbor and he pronounces an oath against him to curse him, and the curse comes before your altar in this house,

###### v32
then you shall hear in heaven and you shall act and you shall judge your servant, to declare the wicked guilty by bringing his way upon his head and _to declare the righteous innocent_ ^[Literally "to declare righteous the righteous"] by rewarding him according to his righteousness.

###### v33
When your people Israel are defeated before the enemy _because_ ^[Literally "who"] they sinned against you, and _when_ they turn to you and confess your name and pray and beg for mercy from you in this house,

###### v34
then you shall hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and you shall bring them back to the ground which you gave to their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v35
When you shut up the heavens so there is no rain because they have sinned against you, then they pray to this place and they confess your name and they return from their sin because you punished them,

###### v36
then you shall hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants and your people Israel, for you will teach them the good way in which they should go, and you will give rain upon your land which you have given to your people as an inheritance.

###### v37
If there should be in the land famine or disease, if there should be blight or mildew or locust or caterpillars, if it happens that his enemy lays siege against him in the land of his gates, if any plague or any disease,

###### v38
any prayer or any plea which is _offered_ by any person for all of your people Israel, who each knows the infestation of his _own_ heart and spreads out his palms to this house,

###### v39
then you shall hear in heaven the place of your dwelling, and you shall forgive and act and give to the man whose heart you know, according to all his ways, for you alone know the heart of all the sons of man.

###### v40
_Do these things_ so that they may fear you all the days that they live on the face of the land that you gave to our ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v41
Also for the foreigner who is not from your people Israel, and he comes from a distant land because of your name,

###### v42
(for they shall hear of your great name and your powerful hand and your outstretched arm), and he shall come and pray toward this house,

###### v43
you shall hear in heaven, the place of your dwelling, and act according to all that the foreigner calls to you, so that all the peoples of the earth may know your name, to fear you as your people Israel, and to know that your name has been invoked over this house that I have built.

###### v44
If your people go out to battle against his enemy in the way that you shall send them and they pray to Yahweh, toward the city which you have chosen and the house which I have built for your name,

###### v45
then you shall hear in heaven their prayer and their plea, and you shall _vindicate_ ^[Literally "their judgment"] them.

###### v46
"If they sin against you (for there is not a person who does not sin) and you are angry with them and you give them to an enemy and they take them captive to the land of the enemy far or near,

###### v47
and then they return their heart in the land where they have been taken captive and they return and plead to you in the land of their captivity, saying, 'We have sinned and we did wrong. We acted wickedly,'

###### v48
if they return to you with all of their heart and with all of their soul in the land of their enemies who took them captive and they pray to you toward their land which you gave to their ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] the city that you have chosen and the house that you ^[The Hebrew Masoretic text (_Kethib_) reads "you have built";_Qere_ reads "I have built"] built for your name,

###### v49
then you shall hear in heaven, the place of your dwelling, their prayer and their plea, and you shall _vindicate them_. ^[Literally "and you shall do their justice"]

###### v50
You shall forgive your people who sinned against you, _even_ for all their transgressions which they committed against you. You shall give them compassion before their captors so that they may have compassion on them,

###### v51
for they _are_ your people and your inheritance whom you brought from Egypt from the middle of the smelter of iron.

###### v52
_O,_ that your eyes _may_ be open to the plea of your servant and to the plea of your people Israel, to listen to them in all things _when_ they call to you.

###### v53
For you have separated them for yourself as an inheritance from all the peoples of the earth, as you promised through the hand of Moses your servant when you brought out our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] from Egypt, my Lord Yahweh!"

###### v54
It happened that when Solomon finished praying to Yahweh all of the prayer and this plea, he got up from before the altar of Yahweh, from kneeling down on his knees with his palms outstretched to heaven.

###### v55
He stood and blessed all of the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,

###### v56
"Blessed be Yahweh who gave a resting place to his people Israel. According to all that he promised, not one word has fallen from all of his promises _concerning_ the good which he spoke through the hand of Moses his servant.

###### v57
May Yahweh our God be with us as he was with our ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and may he not leave us or abandon us,

###### v58
to incline our hearts toward him, to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments, his statutes, and his judgments which he commanded our ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v59
Let these my words which I pleaded before Yahweh _be_ near to Yahweh our God, by day and by night, to maintain the justice of his servant and the justice of his people Israel _as each day requires_ ^[Literally "the word of the day on its day"]

###### v60
so that all of the people of the earth may know that Yahweh, he _is_ God; there is none other.

###### v61
Let your heart be completely with Yahweh our God by walking in his statutes, by keeping his commands as this day."

###### v62
Then the king and all of Israel with him offered a sacrifice in the presence of Yahweh.

###### v63
Solomon sacrificed the fellowship offerings which he offered to Yahweh: twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep; and the king and all of the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] dedicated the house of Yahweh.

###### v64
On that day the king consecrated the middle of the courtyard before the house of Yahweh because he offered there the burnt offerings, the grain offerings, and the fat of the fellowship offerings because the bronze altar that was in the presence of Yahweh was too small to hold the burnt offerings and the grain offerings and the fat of the fellowship offerings.

###### v65
Solomon held the festival at that time and all of Israel with him, a great assembly from Lebo Hamath up to the wadi ^[A valley that is dry most of the year, but contains a stream during the rainy season] of Egypt before Yahweh our God, for seven days _and_ seven days, _a total of_ fourteen days.

###### v66
On the eighth day, he sent the people away, and they blessed the king, and they went to their tents rejoicing and _in good spirits_ ^[Literally "and good of heart"] because of all the goodness that Yahweh had shown to David his servant and to Israel his people.