---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 10
---

[[1 Kgs-09|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-11|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now the queen of Sheba had heard of the fame of Solomon regarding the name of Yahweh, and she came to test him with hard questions.

###### v2
So she came to Jerusalem with very great wealth; _with_ camels carrying spices, very much gold, and precious stones. She came to Solomon, and she spoke to him all that was on her heart.

###### v3
_Solomon answered all of her questions_; ^[Literally "Solomon told her all of her words"] there was not a thing hidden from the king which he could not explain to her.

###### v4
When the queen of Sheba observed all the wisdom of Solomon and the house which he had built,

###### v5
the food of his table, the seat of his servants, the _manner_ ^[Literally "service"] of his servants and their clothing, his cupbearers, and his burnt offerings which he offered in the house of Yahweh, _she was breathless_. ^[Literally "and there was not in her spirit/breath any longer"]

###### v6
Then she said to the king, "The report which I heard in my land was true concerning your accomplishments and your wisdom.

###### v7
I had not believed the report to be true until I came and my eyes had seen, and behold! The half had not been told to me. _Your wisdom and prosperity surpass_ ^[Literally "You have added wisdom and prosperity to"] the report that I had heard.

###### v8
Happy _are_ your men and happy _are_ these your servants who stand before you continually hearing your wisdom.

###### v9
May Yahweh your God be blessed, who has delighted in you to set you on the throne of Israel, because of the love of Yahweh for Israel forever, and he has made you king to execute justice and righteousness."

###### v10
Then she gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, abundant spices, and precious stones. Spices as these did not come again in such abundance _as that which_ the queen of Sheba brought to King Solomon.

###### v11
Moreover, the fleet of ships of Hiram which carried the gold from Ophir _also_ brought from Ophir abundant amounts of almug wood and precious stones.

###### v12
The king made a raised structure for the house of Yahweh and for the house of the king out of the almug wood, as well as lyres and harps for the singers. _This much_ almug wood has not come nor been seen _again_ up to this day.

###### v13
King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all of her desire that she asked, besides that which _King Solomon freely offered her_. ^[Literally "according to the hand of King Solomon"] Then she turned and went to her land with her servants.

###### v14
The weight of the gold that came to Solomon in one year _was_ six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold,

###### v15
apart from _that of_ the men of the traders and the profits of the traders, and all the kings of the Arabs and the governors of the land.

###### v16
King Solomon made two hundred shields of hammered gold; six hundred _measures of_ gold went up over each shield.

###### v17
Also _he made_ three hundred small shields of hammered gold; three minas of gold went up over each of the small shields; and the king put them _into_ the House of the Forest of Lebanon.

###### v18
The king also made a large ivory throne, and he overlaid it _with_ fine gold.

###### v19
Six steps _led up_ to the throne, and _there was_ a circular top to the throne behind it, and armrests were _on each side of the seat_, ^[Literally "from this and from this"] with two lions standing beside the armrests.

###### v20
Twelve lions _were_ standing there, six on each of the six steps _on either side_; ^[Literally "from this and from this"] nothing like this was made for any of the kingdoms.

###### v21
All of the drinking vessels of King Solomon _were_ gold, and all the vessels for the House of the Forest of Lebanon were pure gold. There was no silver; _it was_ not considered as something valuable in the days of Solomon.

###### v22
For the fleet of Tarshish belonged to the king _and was_ on the sea with the fleet of Hiram; once every three years the fleet of Tarshish used to come carrying gold and silver, ivory, apes, and baboons.

###### v23
King Solomon was greater than all the kings of the earth with respect to wealth and wisdom.

###### v24
All of the earth _was_ seeking the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart.

###### v25
They _were_ each bringing his gift; objects of silver and objects of gold, clothing, weapons, spices, horses, and mules. _This used to happen year after year_. ^[Literally "A thing of year to year"]

###### v26
Solomon gathered chariots and horses; he had fourteen hundred chariots and twelve thousand horses. He stationed them in the cities of the chariots and with the king in Jerusalem.

###### v27
The king made the silver in Jerusalem as the stones, and the cedars he made as the sycamore fig trees which are in the Shephelah in abundance.

###### v28
The import of the horses which were Solomon's _was_ from Egypt and from Kue; the traders of the king received _horses_ from Kue at a price.

###### v29
A chariot went up and went out from Egypt at six hundred silver _shekels_ and a horse at a hundred and fifty. So it was for all the kings of the Hittites and for the kings of Aram; by their hand they were exported.