---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 5
---

[[1 Kgs-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon when he heard that they had anointed him as king in place of his father, for Hiram had always been a friend for David.

###### v2
Then Solomon sent to Hiram, saying,

###### v3
"You knew David my father, that he was not able to build a house for the name of Yahweh his God, _in view of the warfare_ ^[Literally "because of the face of the warfare"] which surrounded him, until Yahweh placed them ^[That is, David's enemies] under the soles of his feet.

###### v4
But now Yahweh my God has given me rest all around me. There is no adversary, and there is no bad occurrence.

###### v5
Here I am, intending to build a house for the name of Yahweh my God, as Yahweh promised to my father David, saying, 'Your son, whom I will set in your place on your throne, shall build the house for my name.'

###### v6
So then, command that they may cut cedars for me from Lebanon, and let my servants be with your servants. The wage of your servants I will give to you according to all that you say, for you know that there is no one among us who knows _how_ to cut timber like the Sidonians."

###### v7
When Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly, and he said, "Blessed be Yahweh this day, who has given to David a wise son over this great people."

###### v8
Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, "I have heard what you have sent to me; I will do all of your desire concerning the timber of cedars and concerning the timber of cypresses.

###### v9
My servants will bring _them_ down from Lebanon to the sea, and I will make them _into_ rafts in the sea _to float to_ the place which you indicated to me. Then I shall break them up there, and you may carry _them further_, and _you shall meet my needs_ ^[Literally "you shall do my desire"] by giving food for my house."

###### v10
So Hiram was giving to Solomon the cedar timbers and the cypress timbers, _everything he needed_. ^[Literally "all of his desire"]

###### v11
Then Solomon gave to Hiram twenty thousand dry measures of wheat _as_ food for his household, and twenty dry measures of _specially prepared olive oil_; ^[Literally "beaten olive oil"] thus Solomon gave to Hiram year by year.

###### v12
Yahweh gave wisdom to Solomon as he promised to him, and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] a covenant.

###### v13
Then King Solomon conscripted a forced labor from all Israel, and the forced labor _numbered_ thirty thousand men.

###### v14
He sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand _every month_; ^[Literally "in the month"] the work groups were a month in Lebanon and two months at home; now Adoniram was over the forced labor.

###### v15
Solomon had seventy thousand _common laborers_ ^[Literally "carrying burden"] and eighty thousand stone craftsmen in the hill country.

###### v16
Besides the chiefs of the officers Solomon had, there were three thousand three hundred having charge over the people who were doing the work.

###### v17
When the king commanded, they quarried great stones _and_ precious stones to lay _the_ foundation of the house _with_ hewn stones.

###### v18
So Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders and the Gebalites hewed _stones_, and they prepared the timber and the stone to build the house.