---
aliases:
  - 1 Kings 18
---

[[1 Kgs-17|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Kgs-19|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened many days _later_ that the word of Yahweh came to Elijah in the third year, saying, "Go, present yourself to Ahab so that I may give rain on the surface of the earth."

###### v2
So Elijah went to present himself to Ahab. Now the famine _was_ severe in Samaria.

###### v3
Ahab summoned Obadiah who _was_ over the house. (Now Obadiah was fearing Yahweh greatly.

###### v4
It had happened that when Jezebel killed the prophets of Yahweh, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them _by fifties_ ^[Literally "fifty men"] in the cave and sustained them _with_ food and water.)

###### v5
Ahab said to Obadiah, "Go through the land to all the springs of water and to all the wadis. ^[A valley that is dry most of the year, but contains a stream during the rainy season] Perhaps we may find green grass that we may keep horses and mules alive and that we might not lose any of the animals."

###### v6
So they divided the land for themselves in order to pass through it; Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.

###### v7
It happened that Obadiah _was_ on the way, and suddenly Elijah was there to meet him. When he recognized him, he fell on his face and said, "_Is_ this you, my lord Elijah?"

###### v8
He said to him, "I _am_. Go, say to your lord, 'Elijah _is_ here.'"

###### v9
He said, "How have I sinned that you _are_ giving your servant into the hand of Ahab to kill me?

###### v10
_As Yahweh your God lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh your God"] surely there is not a nation or a kingdom to which my lord has not sent me to seek you. _If_ they would say, 'He is not here,' then he would make the kingdom or the nation swear that it could not find you.

###### v11
Now you _are_ saying, 'Go, say to your lord: "Elijah _is_ here."'

###### v12
And it will happen that I will go from you and the Spirit of Yahweh will carry you up to where I do not know. Then I will come to tell Ahab, but he will not find you, and then he will kill me, _even though_ your servant has feared Yahweh from my youth.

###### v13
Has it not been told to my lord what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of Yahweh? I hid a hundred men of the prophets of Yahweh _by fifties_ ^[Literally "fifty fifty men"] in the cave, and I sustained them _with_ food and water.

###### v14
Now you _are_ saying, 'Go, say to your lord: "Elijah _is_ here,"' and he will kill me."

###### v15
Elijah said, "_As Yahweh of hosts lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh of hosts"] before whom I stand, I will certainly show myself to him today."

###### v16
So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and he told him, so Ahab went to meet Elijah.

###### v17
When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, "_Is_ this you _who_ throws Israel into confusion?"

###### v18
He said, "I did not throw Israel into confusion; rather you and the house of your father _have_ by forsaking the commands of Yahweh when you went after the Baals!

###### v19
So then, send _word_ and assemble all of Israel to me on Mount Carmel, with the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of Asherah, who eat at the table of Jezebel."

###### v20
So Ahab sent _word_ among the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] and he assembled the prophets to Mount Carmel.

###### v21
Elijah approached to all the people and said, "How long _will_ you _go_ limping over two opinions? If Yahweh _is_ God, go after him; but if Baal, go after him." But the people did not answer him a word.

###### v22
Then Elijah said to the people, "I alone _am_ left a prophet of Yahweh, but the prophets of Baal _are_ four hundred and fifty men.

###### v23
Let them give us two bulls, and let them choose for themselves one bull, cut him in pieces, and put it on the wood, but don't let them start a fire on it. I will prepare the other bull and set it on the wood, but I will put no fire _on it_.

###### v24
Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of Yahweh, and it shall be that the god who answers by fire, he _is_ God." ^[Baal is known in Canaanite texts as being the god in control of lightning and fire] Then all the people answered and said, "The word _is_ good!"

###### v25
Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, "Choose for yourselves one bull and prepare it first, for you _are_ the majority, and call on the name of your god, but don't set fire _under it_."

###### v26
So they took the bull that he allowed to them, prepared it, and called upon the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, "O Baal, answer us!" But there was no voice and there was no answer, so they limped ^[That is, moved about the altar in a cultic dance step] about the altar which they had made.

###### v27
It happened at noon that Elijah mocked them and said, "Call out with a loud voice, for he _is_ a god! Perhaps he is meditating, or _is using the bathroom_, ^[Literally "has backed off for himself"] or _is_ on a journey. Perhaps he _is_ asleep and must wake up!"

###### v28
So they called out with a loud voice, and they cut themselves with swords and with spears as was their custom, until the blood poured out over them.

###### v29
It happened as noon passed, they raged until the _time of_ the evening offering, but there was no voice, there was no answer, and no _one_ paid attention.

###### v30
Then Elijah said to all the people, "Come near to me," so all the people came closer to him. He repaired the altar of Yahweh _that had been_ destroyed.

###### v31
Elijah took twelve stones according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of God came, saying, "Israel shall be your name."

###### v32
With them, he built an altar in the name of Yahweh, and he made a trench _which would have held_ ^[Literally "as the house of"] about two seahs of seed, all around the altar.

###### v33
And he arranged the wood, cut the bull into pieces, and placed _it_ on the wood. ^[in the Hebrew Bible, [[1 Kgs-18#v34|1 Kings 18:34]] begins here] Then he said, "Fill four jars _with_ water, and pour it on the burnt offering and on the wood."

###### v34
He said, "Do _it_ again!" They did _it_ again. He said, "Do _it_ a third time!" So they did _it_ a third time.

###### v35
The water went all around the altar, and the trench also was filled _with_ water.

###### v36
It happened at the offering of the _evening_ oblation, Elijah the prophet went near, and he said, "O Yahweh, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel; let it be known today that you _are_ God in Israel and _that_ I _am_ your servant and _that_ I have done all of these things by your words.

###### v37
Answer me, O Yahweh, answer me; that this people may know that you, O Yahweh, _are_ God and that you have turned their hearts back again."

###### v38
Then the fire of Yahweh fell, and it consumed the burnt offering, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust; and the water which _was_ in the trench it licked up!

###### v39
When all the people saw, they fell on their faces and said, "Yahweh, he _is_ God! Yahweh, he _is_ God!"

###### v40
Then Elijah said to them, "Seize the prophets of Baal; don't let any man of them escape!" So they seized them, and Elijah brought them down to the wadi ^[A valley that is dry most of the year, but contains a stream during the rainy season] of Kishon and killed them there.

###### v41
Then Elijah said to Ahab, "Go up, eat and drink, for _there is_ the sound of the noise of rain."

###### v42
So Ahab went up to eat and to drink while Elijah went to the top of Carmel, bent down to the earth, and put his face between his knees.

###### v43
Then he said to his servant, "Please go _and_ look in the direction of _the_ sea." So he went up and looked; then he said, "There is nothing." Then he said, "Go back," seven times.

###### v44
It happened that at the seventh time, he said, "Look, there is a small cloud, as _the_ hand of a man, coming up from the sea." Then _Elijah_ said, "Go up, say to Ahab, 'Harness _your horses_ and go down, lest the rain stop you.'"

###### v45
_In no time_ ^[Literally "Until here and until here"] the heavens grew black _with_ clouds and wind, and there was heavy rain. Ahab rode and he went to Jezreel,

###### v46
but the hand of Yahweh was on Elijah; he girded up his loins and ran before Ahab as one comes to Jezreel.