---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 15
---

[[1 Cor-14|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-16|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now I make known to you, brothers, the gospel which I proclaimed to you, which you have also received, in which you also stand,

###### v2
by which you are also being saved, if you hold fast to the message I proclaimed to you, unless you believed to no purpose.

###### v3
For I passed on to you _as of first importance_ ^[Literally "among the first _things_"] what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures,

###### v4
and that he was buried, and that he was raised up on the third day according to the scriptures,

###### v5
and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve,

###### v6
then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at once, the majority of whom remain until now, but some have fallen asleep.

###### v7
Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles,

###### v8
and last of all, as it were to one born at the wrong time, he appeared also to me.

###### v9
For I am the least of the apostles, not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.

###### v10
But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace to me has not been in vain, but I labored even more than all of them, and not I, but the grace of God with me.

###### v11
Therefore whether I or those, in this way we preached, and in this way you believed.

###### v12
Now if Christ is preached as raised up from the dead, how do some among you say that _there_ is no resurrection of the dead?

###### v13
But if _there_ is no resurrection of the dead, Christ has not been raised _either_.

###### v14
But if Christ has not been raised, then ^[Some manuscripts have "then both"] our preaching _is_ in vain, and your faith _is_ in vain.

###### v15
And also we are found _to be_ false witnesses of God, because we testified against God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if after all, then, the dead are not raised.

###### v16
For if the dead are not raised, Christ has not been raised _either_.

###### v17
But if Christ has not been raised, your faith _is_ empty; you are still in your sins.

###### v18
And as a further result, those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.

###### v19
If _we have put our hope_ ^[Literally "we are having put our hope"] in Christ in this life only, we are of all people most pitiable.

###### v20
But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep.

###### v21
For since through a man _came_ death, also through a man _came_ the resurrection of the dead.

###### v22
For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.

###### v23
But each in his own group: Christ the first fruits, then those _who are_ Christ's at his coming,

###### v24
then the end, when he hands over the kingdom to the God and Father, when he has abolished all rule and all authority and power.

###### v25
For it is necessary for him to reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.

###### v26
The last enemy to be abolished _is_ death.

###### v27
For "he subjected all _things_ under his feet." ^[A quotation from [[Ps-08#v6|Ps 8:6]]] But when it says "all _things_" are subjected, _it is_ clear that the one who subjected all _things_ to him _is_ not included.

###### v28
But whenever all _things_ are subjected to him, then the Son himself will be subjected ^[Some manuscripts have "also will be subjected"] to the one who subjected all _things_ to him, in order that God may be all in all.

###### v29
Otherwise, why do they do _it_, those who are being baptized on behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why indeed are they being baptized on behalf of them?

###### v30
And why are we in danger every hour?

###### v31
I die every day--yes indeed, by my boasting in you, ^[Some manuscripts have "in you, brothers,"] which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord!

###### v32
If according to a human perspective I fought wild beasts at Ephesus, what benefit _is it_ to me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. ^[An allusion to [[Isa-22#v13|Isa 22:13]]; [[Isa-56#v12|56:12]]]

###### v33
Do not be deceived! "Bad company corrupts good morals." ^[A quotation from the Greek poet Menander's comedy _Thais_, 218]

###### v34
Sober up correctly and _stop sinning_ ^[Literally "do not sin"], for some have no knowledge of God--I say _this_ to your shame.

###### v35
But someone will say, "How are the dead raised? And with what sort of body do they come?"

###### v36
Foolish person! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.

###### v37
And what you sow _is_ not the body which it will become, but you sow the bare seed, whether perhaps of wheat or of some of the rest.

###### v38
But God gives to it a body just as he wishes, and to each one of the seeds its own body.

###### v39
Not all flesh _is_ the same, but _there is_ one flesh of human beings, and another flesh of animals, and another flesh of birds, and another of fish,

###### v40
and heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. But the glory of the heavenly _bodies_ _is_ of one kind, and the _glory_ of the earthly _bodies_ _is_ of another kind.

###### v41
_There is_ one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars, for star differs from star in glory.

###### v42
Thus also _is_ the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruptibility.

###### v43
It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power.

###### v44
It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If _there_ is a natural body, _there_ is also a spiritual _body_.

###### v45
Thus also it is written, "The first man, Adam, became a living soul"; ^[A quotation from [[Gen-02#v7|Gen 2:7]]] the last Adam _became_ a life-giving spirit.

###### v46
But the spiritual _is_ not first, but the natural; then the spiritual.

###### v47
The first man _is_ from the earth, made of earth; the second man _is_ from heaven.

###### v48
As the one _who is_ made of earth, so also _are_ those _who are_ made of earth, and as the heavenly, so also _are_ those _who are_ heavenly.

###### v49
And just as we have borne the image of the _one who is_ made of earth, we will also bear the image of the heavenly.

###### v50
But I say this, brothers, that flesh and blood is not able to inherit the kingdom of God, nor can corruption inherit incorruptibility.

###### v51
Behold, I tell you a mystery: we will not all fall asleep, but we will all be changed,

###### v52
in a moment, in the blink of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed.

###### v53
For it is necessary _for_ this perishable _body_ to put on incorruptibility, and this mortal _body_ to put on immortality.

###### v54
But whenever this perishable _body_ puts on incorruptibility and this mortal _body_ puts on immortality, then the saying that is written will take place:
"Death is swallowed up in victory.

###### v55
Where, O death, _is_ your victory?
Where, O death, _is_ your sting?

###### v56
Now the sting of death _is_ sin, and the power of sin _is_ the law.

###### v57
But thanks _be_ to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!

###### v58
So then, my dear brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("know") which is understood as causal] know that your labor is not _in_ vain in the Lord.