---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 13
---

[[1 Cor-12|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-14|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a ringing brass gong or a clashing cymbal.

###### v2
And if I have _the gift of_ prophecy and I know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so that _I can_ remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.

###### v3
And if I parcel out all my possessions, and if I hand over my body in order that I will be burned, ^[Some manuscripts have "in order that I may boast"] but do not have love, it benefits _me_ nothing.

###### v4
Love is patient, love is kind, love is not jealous, _it_ does not boast, _it_ does not become conceited,

###### v5
_it_ does not behave dishonorably, _it_ _is not selfish_ ^[Literally "does not seek the things of itself"], _it_ does not become angry, _it_ does not keep a record of wrongs,

###### v6
_it_ does not rejoice at unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth,

###### v7
bears all _things_, believes all _things_, hopes all _things_, endures all _things_.

###### v8
Love never ends. But if _there are_ prophecies, they will pass away. If _there are_ tongues, they will cease. If _there is_ knowledge, it will pass away.

###### v9
For we know in part and we prophesy in part,

###### v10
but whenever the perfect comes, the partial will pass away.

###### v11
When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I set aside the things of a child.

###### v12
For now we see through a mirror _indirectly_ ^[Literally "in an indirect image"], but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know completely, just as I have also been completely known.

###### v13
And now these three _things_ remain: faith, hope, _and_ love. But the greatest of these _is_ love.