---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 11
---

[[1 Cor-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Become imitators of me, just as I also _am_ of Christ.

###### v2
Now I praise you that you remember me _in_ all _things_, and just as I handed over to you the traditions, you hold fast to _them_.

###### v3
But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and the man _is the_ head of the woman, and _the_ head of Christ _is_ God.

###### v4
Every man who prays or prophesies _while_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("having") which is understood as temporal] having _something_ ^[Here the direct object must be supplied from context, but the exact nature of the object is not clear from the context, so "_something_" is used in the English translation] on _his_ head dishonors his head,

###### v5
but every woman who prays or prophesies with uncovered head dishonors her head, for she is one and the same with the one whose _head_ is shaved.

###### v6
For if a woman does not cover herself, let her _hair_ be shorn off. But if _it is_ shameful for a woman to _have her head_ ^[Literally "to be"] shorn or shaved, let her cover her _head_. ^[Literally "herself"]

###### v7
For indeed a man ought not to cover his head, _because he_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("is") which is understood as causal] is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of the man.

###### v8
For man is not from woman, but woman from man.

###### v9
For indeed man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man.

###### v10
Because of this, the woman ought to have _a symbol of_ authority on her head, on account of the angels.

###### v11
Nevertheless, neither _is_ woman _anything_ apart from man, nor _is_ man _anything_ apart from woman in the Lord.

###### v12
For just as the woman _is_ from the man, thus also the man _is_ through the woman. But all _things_ _are_ from God.

###### v13
You judge _for yourselves_ ^[Literally "in you yourselves"]: is it fitting for a woman to pray to God _with her head_ ^[Here the words "_with her head_" have been supplied as a necessary clarification] uncovered?

###### v14
And does not nature itself teach you that a man, if he wears long hair, it is a dishonor to him?

###### v15
But a woman, if she wears long hair, it is her glory, because her hair is given ^[Some manuscripts have "is given to her"] for a covering.

###### v16
But if anyone is disposed to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor do the churches of God.

###### v17
But in giving this instruction I do not praise _you_, because you come together not for the better but for the worse.

###### v18
For in the first place, _when you_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the temporal genitive absolute participle ("come together")] come together as a church, I hear there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it.

###### v19
For indeed it is necessary that there be factions among you, in order that those who are approved may become evident among you.

###### v20
Therefore, _when_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the temporal genitive absolute participle ("come together")] you come together in the same _place_, it is not to eat the Lord's supper.

###### v21
For _when you_ ^[Here "when" is supplied as a component of the temporal infinitive ("eat")] eat _it_, each one of you goes ahead to take his own supper, and one is hungry and another is drunk.

###### v22
For do you not have houses for eating and drinking? Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who do not have _anything_? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I will not praise _you_!

###### v23
For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you, that the Lord Jesus, on the night in which he was betrayed, took bread,

###### v24
and _after he_ ^[Here "_after_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("had given thanks") which is understood as temporal] had given thanks, he broke _it_ and said, "This is my body which _is_ for you. Do this in remembrance of me."

###### v25
Likewise also the cup, after they had eaten, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink _it_, in remembrance of me."

###### v26
For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.

###### v27
So then, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord.

###### v28
But let a person examine himself, and in this way let him eat from the bread and let him drink from the cup.

###### v29
For the one who eats and drinks, _if he_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("recognize") which is understood as conditional] does not recognize the body, eats and drinks judgment against himself.

###### v30
Because of this, many _are_ weak and sick among you, and quite a few _have died_ ^[Literally "have fallen asleep"].

###### v31
But if we were evaluating ourselves, we would not be judged.

###### v32
But _if we_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are judged") which is understood as conditional] are judged by the Lord, we are being disciplined, in order that we will not be condemned with the world.

###### v33
So then, my brothers, _when you_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("come together") which is understood as temporal] come together in order to eat _the Lord's supper_, ^[*Here the direct object ("the Lord's supper") is supplied from context in the English translation] wait for one another.

###### v34
If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest you come together for judgment. And I will give directions about the remaining _matters_ whenever I come.