---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 7
---

[[1 Cor-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now concerning _the things_ about which you wrote: "_It is_ good for a man not to touch ^[I.e., in a sexual sense] a woman."

###### v2
But because of sexual immorality, let each man have ^[I.e., in the sense of "have sexual relations with"] his own wife and let each woman have her own husband.

###### v3
The husband must fulfill his obligation to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband.

###### v4
The wife does not have authority over her own body, but her husband _does_. And likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but his wife _does_.

###### v5
Do not defraud one another, except perhaps by agreement, for a time, in order that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and _then_ you should be _together_ ^[Literally "at the same"] again, lest Satan tempt you because of your lack of self control.

###### v6
But I say this as a concession, not as a command.

###### v7
I wish all people could be like myself, but each one has his own gift from God, one in this way and another in that way.

###### v8
Now I say to the unmarried and to the widows: _It is_ good for them if they remain as I _am_.

###### v9
But if they cannot control themselves, they should marry, for it is better to marry than to burn _with sexual desire_.

###### v10
To the married I command--not I, but the Lord--a wife must not separate from _her_ husband.

###### v11
But if indeed she does separate, she must remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband must not divorce _his_ wife.

###### v12
Now to the rest I say--not the Lord--if any brother has an unbelieving wife and she consents to live with him, he must not divorce her.

###### v13
And if any wife has an unbelieving husband and he consents to live with her, she must not divorce her husband.

###### v14
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by his wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the brother, since otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy.

###### v15
But if the unbeliever leaves, let him leave. The brother or the sister is not bound in such _cases_. But God has called us ^[Some manuscripts have "you" (plural)] in peace.

###### v16
For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife?

###### v17
But to each one as the Lord has apportioned. As God has called each one, thus let him live--and thus I order in all the churches.

###### v18
Was anyone called _after_ ^[Here "_after_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("being circumcised") which is understood as temporal] being circumcised? He must not undo his circumcision. Was anyone called in uncircumcision? He must not become circumcised.

###### v19
Circumcision is nothing and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God.

###### v20
Each one in the calling in which he was called--in this he should remain.

###### v21
Were you called _while_ a slave? Do not let it be a concern to you. But if indeed you are able to become free, rather make use of _it_.

###### v22
For the one who is called in the Lord _while_ a slave is the Lord's freedperson. Likewise the one who is called _while_ free is a slave of Christ.

###### v23
You were bought at a price; do not become slaves of men.

###### v24
Each one in _the situation_ in which he was called, brothers--in this he should remain with God.

###### v25
Now concerning virgins I do not have a command from the Lord, but I am giving an opinion as one shown mercy by the Lord to be trustworthy.

###### v26
Therefore, I consider this to be good because of the impending distress, that _it is_ good for a man to be thus.

###### v27
Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek release. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife.

###### v28
But if you marry, you have not sinned, and if the virgin marries, she has not sinned. But such people will have affliction in the flesh, and I would spare you.

###### v29
But I say this, brothers: the time is shortened, that from now on even those who have wives should be as _if they_ do not have _wives_,

###### v30
and those who weep as _if they_ do not weep, and those who rejoice as _if they_ do not rejoice, and those who buy as _if they_ do not possess,

###### v31
and those who make use of the world as _if they_ do not make full use of _it_. For the present form of this world is passing away.

###### v32
But I want you to be free from care. The unmarried person cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord.

###### v33
But the one who is married cares for the things of the world, how he may please his wife,

###### v34
and he is divided. And the unmarried woman or the virgin cares for the things of the Lord, in order that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But the married woman cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.

###### v35
Now I am saying this for your own benefit, not that I may put a restriction on you, but to promote appropriate and devoted service to the Lord without distraction.

###### v36
But if anyone thinks he is behaving dishonorably concerning his virgin, if she is past her prime ^[Or "if his passions are strong" (it is not clear in context whether this term refers to the man or to the woman)] and it ought to be thus, let him do what he wishes. He does not sin. Let them marry.

###### v37
But he who stands firm in his heart, not having necessity, but has authority concerning his own will, and has decided this in his own heart, to keep his own virgin, he will do well.

###### v38
So then, the one who marries ^[Or perhaps "the one who gives in marriage"] his own virgin does well, and the one who does not marry _her_ will do better.

###### v39
A wife is bound for as long a time _as_ her husband lives. But if her husband _dies_ ^[Literally "falls asleep"], she is free to marry whomever she wishes, only in the Lord.

###### v40
But she is happier if she remains thus, according to my opinion--and I think I have the Spirit of God.