---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 12
---

[[1 Cor-11|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-13|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now concerning spiritual _gifts_, ^[Or "spiritual _things_"; possibly "those who possess spiritual gifts"] brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant.

###### v2
You know that when you were pagans, you were led astray to the speechless idols, however you were led.

###### v3
Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, "Jesus _is_ accursed," and no one is able to say "Jesus _is_ Lord" except by the Holy Spirit.

###### v4
Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit,

###### v5
and there are varieties of ministries, and the same Lord,

###### v6
and there are varieties of activities, but the same God, who works all _things_ in all _people_.

###### v7
But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what is beneficial _to all_.

###### v8
For to one is given a word of wisdom through the Spirit, and to another a word of knowledge by the same Spirit,

###### v9
to another faith by the same Spirit, to another ^[Some manuscripts have "and to another"] gifts of healing by the one Spirit,

###### v10
to another ^[Some manuscripts have "and to another"] _miraculous powers_ ^[Literally "activities of power"], to another ^[Some manuscripts have "and to another"] prophecy, to another ^[Some manuscripts have "and to another"] distinguishing of spirits, to another kinds of tongues, to another ^[Some manuscripts have "and to another"] interpretation of tongues.

###### v11
But in all these _things_ one and the same Spirit is at work, distributing to each one individually just as he wishes.

###### v12
For just as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of the body, _although they_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are") which is understood as concessive] are many, are one body, thus also Christ.

###### v13
For by ^[Or "in"] one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free _persons_, and all were made to drink one Spirit.

###### v14
For the body is not one member, but many.

###### v15
If the foot should say, "Because I am not a hand, I am not _a part_ of the body," not because of this is it not _a part_ of the body.

###### v16
And if the ear should say, "Because I am not an eye, I am not _a part_ of the body, not because of this is it not _a part_ of the body.

###### v17
If the whole body _were_ an eye, where _would_ the hearing _be_? If the whole _were_ hearing, where _would_ the sense of smell _be_?

###### v18
But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body just as he wanted.

###### v19
And if they all were one member, where _would_ the body _be_?

###### v20
But now _there are_ many members, but one body.

###### v21
Now the eye is not able to say to the hand, "I do not have need of you," or again, the head to the feet, "I do not have need of you."

###### v22
But by much more the members of the body which are thought to be weaker are necessary,

###### v23
and _the parts_ of the body which we think to be less honorable, these we clothe with more abundant honor, and our unpresentable _parts_ come to have more abundant presentability,

###### v24
but our presentable _parts_ do not have need _of this_. Yet God composed the body by giving more abundant honor to the part which lacked _it_,

###### v25
in order that there not be a division in the body, but the members would have the same concern for one another.

###### v26
And if one member suffers, all the members suffer together; if a member ^[Some manuscripts have "one member"] is honored, all the members rejoice with _it_.

###### v27
Now you are the body of Christ, and members _of it individually_ ^[Literally "by part"],

###### v28
and whom God has appointed in the church: first, apostles, second, prophets, third, teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, administrations, kinds of tongues.

###### v29
Not all _are_ apostles, _are they_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here] Not all _are_ prophets, _are they_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here] Not all _are_ teachers, _are they_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here] Not all _are workers of_ miracles, _are they_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here]

###### v30
Not all have gifts of healing, _do they_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here] Not all speak with tongues, _do they_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here] Not all interpret, _do they_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here]

###### v31
But strive ^[Or "you are striving" (some understand the form of this verb to be indicative mood rather than imperative mood)] for the greater gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way.