---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 5
---

[[1 Cor-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It is reported everywhere _that there_ is sexual immorality among you, and sexual immorality of such a kind which _does_ not _even exist_ among the Gentiles, so that someone has the wife of _his_ father.

###### v2
And you are inflated with pride, and should you not rather have mourned, so that the one who has done this deed would be removed from your midst?

###### v3
For _although I_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("am absent") which is understood as concessive] am absent in body but present in spirit, I have already passed judgment on the one who has done this in this way, as _if I_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("were present") which is understood as conditional] were present.

###### v4
In the name of our Lord Jesus, _when_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the temporal genitive absolute participle ("are assembled")] you are assembled, and my spirit, together with the power of our Lord Jesus,

###### v5
_I have decided_ ^[The words "I have decided" are implied from the statement "I have already passed judgment" in v. [[1 Cor-05#v3|3]]] to hand over such a person to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, in order that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.

###### v6
Your boasting _is_ not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole batch of dough?

###### v7
Clean out the old leaven in order that you may be a new batch of dough, just as you are unleavened. For Christ our Passover has been sacrificed.

###### v8
So then, let us celebrate the feast, not with the old leaven or with the leaven of wickedness and sinfulness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.

###### v9
I wrote to you in the letter not to associate with sexually immoral people.

###### v10
By no means _did I mean_ the sexually immoral people of this world or the greedy people and swindlers or idolaters, since then you would have to depart out of the world.

###### v11
But now I have written to you not to associate with any so-called brother, if he is a sexually immoral person or a greedy person or an idolater or an abusive person or a drunkard or a swindler--with such a person not even to eat.

###### v12
For what _is it_ to me to judge those outside? Should you not judge those inside?

###### v13
But those outside God will judge. Remove the evil person _from among yourselves_ ^[Literally "from you of them"].