---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 8
---

[[1 Cor-07|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-09|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now concerning food sacrificed to idols, we know that "we all have knowledge." ^[Considered by many interpreters to be a slogan used by the Corinthians to justify their behavior] Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.

###### v2
If anyone thinks he knows anything, he has not yet known as it is necessary to know.

###### v3
But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him.

###### v4
Therefore, concerning the eating of food sacrificed to idols, we know that "an idol _is_ nothing in the world" and that "_there is_ no God except one." ^[Considered by many interpreters to be slogans used by the Corinthians to justify their behavior]

###### v5
For even if after all _there_ are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, just as _there_ are many gods and many lords,

###### v6
yet to us _there is_ one God, the Father,
from whom _are_ all _things_, and we _are_ for him,
and _there is_ one Lord, Jesus Christ,
through whom _are_ all _things_, and we _are_ through him.

###### v7
But this knowledge _is_ not in everyone. But some, being accustomed until now to the idol, eat _this food_ as food sacrificed to idols, and their conscience, _because it_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("is") which is understood as causal] is weak, is defiled.

###### v8
But food does not bring us close to God. For neither if we eat do we have more, nor if we do not eat do we lack. ^[Some manuscripts omit "For" and have "Neither if we do not eat do we lack, nor if we do eat do we have more"]

###### v9
But watch out lest somehow this right of yours becomes a cause for stumbling to the weak.

###### v10
For if someone should see you who has knowledge reclining for a meal in an idol's temple, will not his conscience, _because it_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("is") which is understood as causal] is weak, be strengthened so that _he_ eats the food sacrificed to idols?

###### v11
For the one who is weak--the brother for whom Christ died--is destroyed by your knowledge.

###### v12
Now _if you_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("sin") which is understood as conditional] sin in this way against the brothers and wound their conscience, which is weak, you sin against Christ.

###### v13
Therefore, if food causes my brother to sin, I will never eat meat _forever_ ^[Literally "for the age"], in order that I may not cause my brother to sin.