---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 2
---

[[1 Cor-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And I, _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("came") which is understood as temporal] came to you, brothers, did not come with superiority of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony ^[Some manuscripts have "mystery"] of God.

###### v2
For I decided not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.

###### v3
And I came to you in weakness and in fear and with much trembling,

###### v4
and my speech and my preaching _were_ not with the persuasiveness ^[Some manuscripts have "with persuasive words"] of wisdom, but with a demonstration of the Spirit and power,

###### v5
in order that your faith would not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.

###### v6
Now we do speak wisdom among the mature, but wisdom not of this age or of the rulers of this age, who are perishing,

###### v7
but we speak the hidden wisdom of God in a mystery, which God predestined before the ages for our glory,

###### v8
which none of the rulers of this age knew. For if they had known _it_, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.

###### v9
But just as it is written,
"_Things_ which eye has not seen and ear has not heard,
and have not entered into the heart of man,
all that ^[Some manuscripts have "which"] God has prepared for those who love him." ^[A quotation from [[Isa-64#v4|Isa 64:4]]]

###### v10
For ^[Some manuscripts have "But to us God has revealed _them_"] to us God has revealed _them_ through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all _things_, even the depths of God.

###### v11
For who among men knows the things of a man, except the spirit of the man that _is_ in him? Thus also no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God.

###### v12
Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who _is_ from God, in order that we may know the things freely given to us by God,

###### v13
_things_ which we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in _words_ taught by the Spirit, explaining spiritual _things_ to spiritual _people_. ^[Or "in spiritual _words_"]

###### v14
But the natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he is not able to understand _them_, because they are spiritually discerned.

###### v15
Now the spiritual _person_ discerns all _things_, but he himself is judged by no one.

###### v16
"For who has known the mind of the Lord; who has advised him?" ^[A quotation from [[Isa-40#v13|Isa 40:13]]] But we have the mind of Christ.