---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 9
---

[[1 Cor-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?

###### v2
If to others I am not an apostle, yet indeed I am to you, for you are my seal of apostleship in the Lord.

###### v3
My defense to those who examine me is this:

###### v4
Do we not have the right to eat and drink?

###### v5
Do we not have the right to take along a sister _as_ wife, like the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?

###### v6
Or do only I and Barnabas not have the right _to refrain from working_ ^[Literally "not to work"]?

###### v7
Who ever serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? Who ^[Some manuscripts have "Or who"] shepherds a flock and does not drink ^[Literally "eat"] from the milk of the flock?

###### v8
I am not saying these _things_ according to a human perspective. Or does the law not also say these _things_?

###### v9
For in the law of Moses it is written, "You must not muzzle an ox _while it_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("threshing") which is understood as temporal] is threshing." ^[A quotation from [[Deut-25#v4|Deut 25:4]]] It is not about oxen God is concerned, is it? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here]

###### v10
Or doubtless does he speak _for our sake_ ^[Literally "for the sake of us"]? For it is written _for our sake_ ^[Literally "for the sake of us"], because the one who plows ought to plow in hope and the one who threshes _ought to do so_ in hope of a share.

###### v11
If we have sown spiritual _things_ among you, _is it too_ great _a thing_ if we reap material _things_ from you?

###### v12
If others share this right over you, do we not _do so_ even more? Yet we have not made use of this right, but we endure all _things_, in order that we may not cause any hindrance to the gospel of Christ.

###### v13
Do you not know that those performing the holy services eat the things from the temple, _and_ those attending to the altar have a share with the altar?

###### v14
In the _same_ way also the Lord ordered those who proclaim the gospel to live from the gospel.

###### v15
But I have not made use of any of these _rights_. And I am not writing these _things_ in order that it may be thus with me. For _it would be_ better to me rather to die than _for_ anyone to deprive me of my reason for boasting.

###### v16
For if I proclaim the gospel, it is not to me a reason for boasting, for necessity is imposed on me. For woe is to me if I do not proclaim the gospel.

###### v17
For if I do this voluntarily, I have a reward, but if _I do so_ unwillingly, I have been entrusted with a stewardship.

###### v18
What then is my reward? That _when I_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("proclaim the gospel") which is understood as temporal] proclaim the gospel, I may offer the gospel free of charge, in order not to make full use of my right in the gospel.

###### v19
For _although I_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("am") which is understood as concessive] am free from all _people_, I have enslaved myself to all, in order that I may gain more.

###### v20
I have become like a Jew to the Jews, in order that I may gain the Jews. To those under the law _I became_ as under the law (_although I_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("am") which is understood as concessive] myself am not under the law) in order that I may gain those under the law.

###### v21
To those outside the law _I became_ as outside the law (_although I_ ^[Here "_although_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("am") which is understood as concessive] am not outside the law of God, but subject to the law of Christ) in order that I may gain those outside the law.

###### v22
To the weak I became weak, in order that I may gain the weak. I have become all _things_ to all _people_, in order that by all means I may save some.

###### v23
I do all _this_ for the sake of the gospel, in order that I may become a participant with it.

###### v24
Do you not know that those who run in the stadium all run, but one receives the prize? Run in such a way that you may win.

###### v25
And everyone who competes exercises self-control in all _things_. Thus those _do so_ in order that they may receive a perishable crown, but we an imperishable _one_.

###### v26
Therefore I run in this way, not as _running_ aimlessly; I box in this way, not as beating the air.

###### v27
But I discipline my body and subjugate _it_, lest somehow _after_ ^[Here "_after_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("preaching") which is understood as temporal] preaching to others, _I_ myself should become disqualified.