---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 4
---

[[1 Cor-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Thus let a person consider us as servants of Christ and stewards of God's mysteries.

###### v2
In this case, moreover, it is sought in stewards that one be found faithful.

###### v3
But to me it is a very little matter that I be judged by you or by a human court, ^[Literally "day"] but I do not _even_ judge myself.

###### v4
For I am conscious of nothing against myself, but not by this am I vindicated. But the one who judges me is the Lord.

###### v5
Therefore do not judge anything before the time, until the Lord should come, who will both enlighten the hidden things of darkness and will reveal the counsels of hearts, and then praise will come to each one from God.

###### v6
Now I have applied these things, brothers, to myself and Apollos for your sake, in order that in us you may learn not _to go_ beyond what is written, lest someone be inflated with pride on behalf of one _person_ against the other.

###### v7
For who concedes you _superiority_? And what do you have that you did not receive? But if indeed you received _it_, why do you boast as _if you_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("receive") which is understood as conditional] did not receive _it_?

###### v8
Already you are satiated! Already you are rich! Apart from us you reign as kings! And would that indeed you reigned as kings, in order that we also might reign as kings with you!

###### v9
For, I think, God has exhibited us apostles last of all, as condemned to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world and to angels and to people.

###### v10
We _are_ fools for the sake of Christ, but you _are_ prudent in Christ! We _are_ weak, but you _are_ strong! You _are_ honored, but we _are_ dishonored!

###### v11
Until the present hour we are both hungry and thirsty and poorly clothed and roughly treated and homeless,

###### v12
and we toil, working with our own hands. _When we are_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("reviled") which is understood as temporal] reviled, we bless; _when we are_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("persecuted") which is understood as temporal] persecuted, we endure;

###### v13
_when we are_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("slandered") which is understood as temporal] slandered, we encourage. We have become like the refuse of the world, the offscouring of all _things_, until now.

###### v14
I am not writing these _things_ to shame you, but admonishing _you_ as my dear children.

###### v15
For if you have ten thousand guardians in Christ, yet _you do_ not _have_ many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I fathered you through the gospel.

###### v16
Therefore I exhort you, become imitators of me.

###### v17
Because of this, I have sent to you Timothy, who is my dear and faithful child in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways in Christ Jesus, just as I teach everywhere in every church.

###### v18
But some have become arrogant, as _if_ I were not coming to you.

###### v19
But I am coming to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will know not the talk of the ones who have become arrogant, but the power.

###### v20
For the kingdom of God _is_ not with talk, but with power.

###### v21
What do you want? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love and a spirit of gentleness?