---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 3
---

[[1 Cor-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual _people_, but as to fleshly _people_, as to infants in Christ.

###### v2
I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able _to eat it_. But now you are still not able,

###### v3
for you are still fleshly. For where _there is_ jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly, and do you not live like _unregenerate_ people? ^[That is, like people who do not possess the Spirit at all]

###### v4
For whenever anyone says, "I am with Paul," and another, "I _am_ with Apollos," are you not _merely_ human?

###### v5
Therefore, what is Apollos and what is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, and to each as the Lord gave.

###### v6
I planted, Apollos watered, but God was causing _it_ to grow.

###### v7
So then, neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything, but God who is causing _it_ to grow.

###### v8
Now the one who plants and the one who waters are one, but each one will receive his own reward according to his own labor.

###### v9
For we are God's fellow workers; you are God's field, God's building.

###### v10
According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder I laid a foundation, and another is building upon _it_. But each one must direct his attention to how he is building upon _it_.

###### v11
For no one is able to lay another foundation than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.

###### v12
Now if anyone builds upon the foundation _with_ gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, straw,

###### v13
the work of each one will become evident. For the day will reveal _it_, because it will be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the work of each one, of what sort it is.

###### v14
If anyone's work that he has built upon _it_ remains, he will receive a reward.

###### v15
If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, but so as through fire.

###### v16
Do you not know that you are God's temple and the Spirit of God dwells in you?

###### v17
If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy this one. For God's temple is holy, which you are.

###### v18
Let no one deceive himself. If anyone thinks _himself_ to be wise among you in this age, let him become a fool, in order that he may become wise.

###### v19
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God, for it is written, "The one who catches the wise in their craftiness," ^[A quotation from [[Job-05#v13|Job 5:13]]]

###### v20
and again, "The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile." ^[A quotation from [[Ps-94#v11|Ps 94:11]]]

###### v21
So then, let no one boast in people. For all _things_ are yours,

###### v22
whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come, all _things_ _are_ yours,

###### v23
and you _are_ Christ's, and Christ _is_ God's.