---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 16
---

[[1 Cor-15|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
Now concerning the collection for the saints: just as I gave directions about _it_ to the churches of Galatia, so you do also.

###### v2
On the first _day_ of the week, each one of you _put aside_ ^[Literally "put from himself"] _something_, saving up _to whatever extent he has prospered_ ^[Literally "whatever if anything he has been prospered"], in order that whenever I come, at that time collections do not take place.

###### v3
And whenever I arrive, whomever you approve by letters, I will send these to take your gift to Jerusalem.

###### v4
And if it is worthwhile for me to go also, they will travel with me.

###### v5
But I will come to you whenever I go through Macedonia (for I am going through Macedonia),

###### v6
and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, so that you may send me on my way wherever I may go.

###### v7
For I do not want to see you now in passing, for I hope to remain some time with you, if the Lord allows _it_.

###### v8
But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost,

###### v9
for a great and effective door has opened for me, and _there are_ many opponents.

###### v10
But if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without cause to fear, for he is carrying out the Lord's work, as I also _am_.

###### v11
Therefore do not let anyone disdain him, but send him _on his way_ in peace in order that he may come to me, for I am expecting him with the brothers.

###### v12
Now concerning Apollos our brother, I urged him many _times_ that he should come to you with the brothers, and he was not at all willing that he should come now, but he will come whenever he has _an_ opportunity.

###### v13
Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act courageously, be strong.

###### v14
All your _actions_ must be done in love.

###### v15
Now I urge you, brothers--you know about the household of Stephanas, that they are the first fruits of Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the ministry for the saints--

###### v16
that you also be subject to such people, and to all those who work together and labor.

###### v17
Now I rejoice over the arrival of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these make up for your absence,

###### v18
for they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore recognize such people.

###### v19
The churches of _the province of_ Asia ^[That is, the Roman province of Asia, known today as Asia Minor] greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you in the Lord many _times_, together with the church in their house.

###### v20
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.

###### v21
The greeting _is_ by my hand--Paul's.

###### v22
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed. O Lord, come! ^[The Aramaic expression _marana tha_ ("O Lord, come!") can also be rendered _maran atha_ ("our Lord has come"); it is used here by Paul without explanation]

###### v23
The grace of the Lord Jesus _be_ with you.

###### v24
My love _be_ with all of you in Christ Jesus.