---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 14
---

[[1 Cor-13|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-15|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Pursue love, and strive for spiritual _gifts_, but especially that you may prophesy.

###### v2
For the one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to people but to God, because no one understands, but by the Spirit ^[Or "in the Spirit"; or "in _his_ spirit"] he speaks mysteries.

###### v3
But the one who prophesies speaks to people edification and encouragement and consolation.

###### v4
The one who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but the one who prophesies edifies the church.

###### v5
Now I want you all to speak with tongues, but even more that you may prophesy. The one who prophesies _is_ greater than the one who speaks with tongues, unless he interprets, in order that the church may receive edification.

###### v6
But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking with tongues, how do I benefit you, unless I speak to you either with a revelation or with knowledge or with a prophecy or with a teaching?

###### v7
Likewise, the inanimate things which produce a sound, whether flute or lyre, if they do not produce a distinction in the tones, how will it be known what is played on the flute or on the lyre?

###### v8
For indeed, if the trumpet produces an indistinct sound, who will prepare for battle?

###### v9
And so you through the tongue, unless you produce a clear message, how will it be known what is spoken? For you will be speaking into the air.

###### v10
There are probably so many kinds of languages in the world, and none without meaning.

###### v11
Therefore, if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a barbarian to the one who is speaking, and the one who is speaking _will be_ a barbarian in my _judgment_.

###### v12
In this way also you, since you are zealous of spiritual _gifts_, seek for the edification of the church, in order that you may abound.

###### v13
Therefore the one who speaks in a tongue must pray that he may interpret.

###### v14
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unproductive.

###### v15
_Therefore what should I do_ ^[Literally "what therefore is it"]? I will pray with my spirit, but I will also pray with my mind. I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will also sing praise with my mind.

###### v16
For otherwise, if you praise in _your_ spirit, how will the one who fills the place of the outsider say the "amen" at your thanksgiving, because he does not know what you are saying?

###### v17
For indeed you are giving thanks well, but the other person is not edified.

###### v18
I give thanks to God _that_ I speak with tongues more than all of you,

###### v19
but in the church I prefer to speak five words with my mind, in order that I may instruct other _people_, than ten thousand words in a tongue.

###### v20
Brothers, do not become children in _your_ understanding, but with respect to wickedness be as a child, and in _your_ understanding be mature.

###### v21
In the law it is written:
"By those who speak a foreign language
and by the lips of others
I will speak to this people,
and not even in this way will they obey me," ^[A quotation from [[Isa-28#v11|Isa 28:11–12]][[Isa-28#v12|]]]
says the Lord.

###### v22
So then, tongues are for a sign not to those who believe, but to unbelievers, but prophecy _is_ not for unbelievers, but for those who believe.

###### v23
Therefore, if the whole church comes together at the same _time_ and all speak with tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds?

###### v24
But if all prophesy, and some unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is judged by all,

###### v25
the secret things of his heart become evident, and so, falling on _his_ face, he will worship God, proclaiming, "God is truly among you!"

###### v26
_Therefore what should you do_ ^[Literally "what therefore is it"], brothers? Whenever you come together, each one of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. All _things_ must be _done_ for edification.

###### v27
If anyone speaks in a tongue, _it must be_ on one occasion two or at most three, and _one after the other_ ^[Literally "in turn"], and one must interpret.

###### v28
But if there is no interpreter, he must be silent in the church, but let him speak to himself and to God.

###### v29
Let two or three prophets speak, and the others evaluate.

###### v30
And if _something_ is revealed to another who is seated, the first must be silent.

###### v31
For you are all able to prophesy _in turn_ ^[Literally "one at a time], in order that all may learn and all may be encouraged,

###### v32
and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.

###### v33
For God is not _a God of_ disorder but of peace.
As in all the churches of the saints,

###### v34
the women must be silent in the churches, for it is not permitted for them to speak, but they must be in submission, just as the law also says.

###### v35
But if they want to learn something, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.

###### v36
Or has the word of God gone out from you, or has it come to you only?

###### v37
If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, ^[Or "or one who possesses the Spirit"] he should recognize that _the things_ which I am writing to you are of the Lord. ^[Some manuscripts have "are a command of the Lord"]

###### v38
But if anyone ignores _this_, he is ignored. ^[Or "if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant"]

###### v39
So then, my brothers, desire to prophesy, and do not prevent speaking with tongues.

###### v40
But let all _things_ be _done_ decently and according to proper procedure.