---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 1
---

[[1 Cor-02|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Paul, called _to be_ an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother,

###### v2
to the church of God sanctified in Christ Jesus that is in Corinth, ^[Some manuscripts have "to the church of God that is in Corinth, sanctified in Christ Jesus"] called _to be_ saints, together with all those who call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, their _Lord_ ^[Here "Lord" must be supplied to indicate the referent; otherwise this could be understood as "their place and ours"] and ours.

###### v3
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

###### v4
I give thanks to my God always concerning you, because of the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus,

###### v5
that ^[Or "because"; the conjunction either (1) introduces a content clause ("that") giving the content of Paul's thanks, or (2) introduces a causal clause ("because") giving the reason for Paul's thanks] in everything you were made rich in him, in all speech and all knowledge,

###### v6
just as the testimony about Christ has been confirmed in you,

###### v7
so that you do not lack in any spiritual gift _as you_ ^[Here "_as_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("eagerly await") which is understood as temporal] eagerly await the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ,

###### v8
who will also confirm you until the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.

###### v9
God _is_ faithful, by whom you were called to fellowship with his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

###### v10
Now I exhort you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all say the same _thing_ and there not be divisions among you, and that you be made complete in the same mind and with the same purpose.

###### v11
For it has been made clear to me concerning you, my brothers, by _Chloe's people_ ^[Literally "those of Chloe"], that there are quarrels among you.

###### v12
But I say this, that each of you is saying, "I am with Paul," and "I _am_ with Apollos," and "I _am_ with Cephas," and "I _am_ with Christ."

###### v13
Has Christ been divided? Paul was not crucified for you, was he? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here] Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?

###### v14
I give thanks ^[Some manuscripts have "I give thanks to God"] that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,

###### v15
lest anyone should say that you were baptized in my name.

###### v16
(Now I also baptized the household of Stephanas. Beyond that I do not know if I baptized anyone else.)

###### v17
For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to proclaim the gospel, not with _clever speech_ ^[Literally "wisdom of word"], lest the cross of Christ be emptied.

###### v18
For the message about the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.

###### v19
For it is written,
"I will destroy the wisdom of the wise,
and the intelligence of the intelligent I will confound." ^[A quotation from [[Isa-29#v14|Isa 29:14]]]

###### v20
Where _is_ the wise person? Where _is_ the scribe? Where _is_ the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?

###### v21
For since, in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not know God, God was pleased through the foolishness of preaching to save those who believe.

###### v22
For indeed, Jews ask for sign miracles and Greeks seek wisdom,

###### v23
but we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a cause for stumbling, but to the Gentiles foolishness,

###### v24
but to those _who are_ called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ _is_ the power of God and the wisdom of God.

###### v25
For the foolishness of God is wiser than human _wisdom_, ^[Literally "man"] and the weakness of God _is_ stronger than human _strength_. ^[Literally "man"]

###### v26
For consider your calling, brothers, that not many _were_ wise according to human standards, ^[Literally "according to flesh"] not many _were_ powerful, not many _were_ well born.

###### v27
But the foolish _things_ of the world God chose in order that he might put to shame the wise, and the weak _things_ of the world God chose in order that he might put to shame the strong,

###### v28
and the insignificant of the world, and the despised, God chose, the things that are not, in order that he might abolish the things that are,

###### v29
so that all flesh may not boast before God.

###### v30
But from him you are in Christ Jesus, who became wisdom to us from God, and righteousness and sanctification and redemption,

###### v31
so that, just as it is written, "The one who boasts, let him boast in the Lord." ^[A quotation from [[Jer-09#v24|Jer 9:24]]]