---
aliases:
  - 1 Corinthians 10
---

[[1 Cor-09|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Cor-11|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all went through the sea,

###### v2
and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,

###### v3
and all ate the same spiritual food,

###### v4
and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed _them_, and the rock was Christ.

###### v5
But God was not pleased with the majority of them, for they were struck down in the desert.

###### v6
Now these _things_ happened _as_ examples for us, so that we should not be desirers of evil _things_, just as those also desired _them_,

###### v7
and not become idolaters, as some of them _did_, just as it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and stood up to play," ^[A quotation from [[Exod-32#v6|Exod 32:6]]]

###### v8
nor commit sexual immorality, as some of them committed sexual immorality, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day,

###### v9
nor put Christ to the test, as some of them tested _him_, and were destroyed by snakes,

###### v10
nor grumble, just as some of them grumbled, and were destroyed by the destroyer.

###### v11
Now these _things_ happened to those _people_ as an example, but are written for our instruction, on whom the ends of the ages have come.

###### v12
Therefore, the one who thinks that he stands must watch out lest he fall.

###### v13
Temptation has not come upon you except _what is_ common to humanity. But God _is_ faithful, who will not permit you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but will also make a way out together with the temptation, _so that you_ may be able to endure _it_.

###### v14
Therefore, my dear friends, flee from idolatry.

###### v15
I am speaking as to sensible _people_; you judge what I am saying.

###### v16
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?

###### v17
Because _there is_ one bread, _we_ who _are_ many are one body, for _we_ all share from the one bread.

###### v18
Consider Israel according to the flesh: are not the ones who eat the sacrifices sharers in the altar?

###### v19
Therefore, what am I saying? That food sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?

###### v20
_No_, but that _the things_ which they sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not want you to become sharers with demons.

###### v21
You are not able to drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You are not able to share the table of the Lord and the table of demons.

###### v22
Or are we attempting to provoke the Lord to jealousy? We are not stronger than he _is, are we_? ^[*The negative construction in Greek anticipates a negative answer here]

###### v23
All _things_ are permitted, but not all _things_ are profitable. All _things_ are permitted, but not all _things_ build up.

###### v24
Let no one seek _his own good_ ^[Literally "the _-_ of himself"; "good" is implied] but the _good_ of the other.

###### v25
Eat everything that is sold in the meat market, _asking no questions_ ^[Literally "questioning nothing"] for the sake of the conscience,

###### v26
for "the earth _is_ the Lord's, and its fullness." ^[A quotation from [[Ps-24#v1|Ps 24:1,]] and an allusion to [[Ps-50#v12|Ps 50:12]]; [[Ps-89#v11|89:11]]]

###### v27
If any of the unbelievers invites you, and you want to go, eat everything that is set before you, _asking no questions_ ^[Literally "questioning nothing"] for the sake of the conscience.

###### v28
But if someone says to you, "This is offered to idols," do not eat _it_, for the sake of that one who informed _you_ and the conscience.

###### v29
Now I am not speaking about your own conscience, but the _conscience_ of the other _person_. For why _is_ my freedom judged by another's conscience?

###### v30
If I partake with thankfulness, why am I slandered concerning that for which I give thanks?

###### v31
Therefore, whether you eat or you drink or whatever you do, do all _things_ for the glory of God.

###### v32
_Give no offense_ ^[Literally "be blameless"] both to Jews and to Greeks and to the church of God,

###### v33
just as I also please all _people_ in all _things_, not seeking my own benefit, but the _benefit_ of the many, in order that they may be saved.