---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 1
---

[[1 Chr-02|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Adam, Seth, Enosh;

###### v2
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared;

###### v3
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech;

###### v4
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

###### v5
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.

###### v6
The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Diphath, and Togarmah.

###### v7
The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rhodanim.

###### v8
The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.

###### v9
The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.

###### v10
And Cush fathered Nimrod; he himself began to be mighty on earth.

###### v11
And Mizraim fathered the Ludim, the Anamim, the Lehabim, the Naphtuhim,

###### v12
the Pathrusim, the Casluhim (from whence the Philistines descended), and the Caphtorim.

###### v13
And Canaan fathered Zidon his firstborn, and Heth,

###### v14
and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,

###### v15
the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,

###### v16
the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.

###### v17
The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech.

###### v18
And Arphaxad fathered Shelah; and Shelah fathered Eber.

###### v19
And two sons were born to Eber: the name of the one _was_ Peleg (for in his days the earth was divided), and the name of his brother _was_ Joktan.

###### v20
And Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,

###### v21
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,

###### v22
Ebal, ^[Spelled "Obal" in [[Gen-10#v28|Genesis 10:28]]] Abimael, Sheba,

###### v23
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.

###### v24
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah;

###### v25
Eber, Peleg, Reu;

###### v26
Serug, Nahor, Terah;

###### v27
Abram, that is, Abraham.

###### v28
The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.

###### v29
These _are_ their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, Abdeel, Mibsam,

###### v30
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,

###### v31
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedmah. These _are_ the sons of Ishmael.

###### v32
And the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she gave birth to Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.

###### v33
And the sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Enoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these _were_ the sons of Keturah.

###### v34
Abraham fathered Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.

###### v35
The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.

###### v36
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, ^[Spelled "Zepho" in [[Gen-36#v11|Genesis 36:11]]] Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek.

###### v37
The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.

###### v38
And the sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.

###### v39
And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam; and the sister of Lotan _was_ Timna.

###### v40
The sons of Shobal: Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.

###### v41
The sons of Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran.

###### v42
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.

###### v43
These _are_ the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the _Israelites_: ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] Bela son of Beor, and the name of his city _was_ Dinhabah.

###### v44
When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah reigned in his place.

###### v45
When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.

###### v46
When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated the Midianites in the country of Moab, reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Avith. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere)_; _Kethib_ has "Avuth"]

###### v47
When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.

###### v48
When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth-by-the-River reigned in his place.

###### v49
When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Achbor reigned in his place.

###### v50
When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad reigned in his place, and the name of his city _was_ Pai. ^[Spelled "Pau" in [[Gen-36#v39|Genesis 36:39]]] And the name of his wife _was_ Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-Zahab.

###### v51
And Hadad died. And the chiefs of Edom were: chiefs Timna, Aliah, Jetheth,

###### v52
Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,

###### v53
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,

###### v54
Magdiel, and Iram. These _are_ the chiefs of Edom.