---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 17
---

[[1 Chr-16|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-18|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And as David lived in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, "Look, I live in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Yahweh _is_ under tent curtains."

###### v2
And Nathan said to David, "Whatever _is_ in your heart, do, for God _is_ with you."

###### v3
And it happened that same night the word of God came to Nathan, saying,

###### v4
"Go and say to David my servant, 'Thus says Yahweh, "You _are_ not to build a house for me to live _in_,

###### v5
for I have not lived in a house from the day that I brought out Israel unto this day. I have been from tent to tent and from tabernacle _to tabernacle_.

###### v6
In every _place_ I have moved about, did I say one word _with_ the judges of Israel I commanded to shepherd my people, saying, 'Why have you not built for me a house of cedar?'"'

###### v7
So now, thus you shall say to my servant David, 'Thus says Yahweh of hosts, "I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be leader over my people Israel,

###### v8
and I have been with you wherever you went and have cut down your enemies from before you and will make a name for you, like the name of the great ones on the earth.

###### v9
And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them, ^[Or "him" (i.e., the nation)] and they ^[Or "he"] shall dwell in their ^[Or "his"] place and be in anguish no longer. And wicked men will no longer wear them down as before,

###### v10
from the day that I commanded judges over my people Israel. And I will subdue your enemies, and I declare to you _that_ Yahweh will build for you a house. ^[Or "household" (that is, a dynasty)]

###### v11
And it shall be that when your days are fulfilled to go _and sleep_ with your ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] then I will raise up your seed after you, who will be one of your sons, and I will establish his kingdom.

###### v12
He himself will build for me a house, and I will establish his throne forever.

###### v13
I myself will be a father to him, and he himself will be a son to me. And I will not remove my steadfast love from him as I took it away from whoever was before you.

###### v14
And I will establish him in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne will be established forever."'"

###### v15
According to all these words and according to all this revelation, thus did Nathan speak to David.

###### v16
Then King David went and sat before Yahweh and said, "Who _am_ I, O Yahweh God, and what _is_ my house that you have brought me thus far?

###### v17
And this was a small _matter_ in your eyes, O God. And you have spoken concerning the house of your servant for a long _time_ and have shown me _future generations to come_, ^[Literally "with a turn of humankind ascending"] O Yahweh God.

###### v18
_What more_ ^[Literally "What to add again"] can David _do_ to you for honoring your servant? Now you know your servant.

###### v19
O Yahweh, for the sake of your servant and according to your heart you have done all this greatness, to make known all _these_ great things.

###### v20
O Yahweh, there is none like you, and there is no God except you, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

###### v21
And who _is_ like your people Israel, _the_ one nation upon earth whom God went to redeem for himself, to establish for you a reputation ^[Or "name"] for great and awesome things, to drive out nations from before your people whom you redeemed from Egypt?

###### v22
And you made your people Israel an everlasting nation for yourself. And you, O Yahweh, became their God.

###### v23
So now, O Yahweh, let the word that you spoke to your servant and to his house be established forever, that you might do what you have spoken.

###### v24
And let your name be established and be magnified forever, saying, 'Yahweh of hosts, the God of Israel, is Israel's God, and may the house of David your servant be established before you.'

###### v25
For you, my God, _have informed_ ^[Literally "have opened the ear of"] your servant _that_ you will build a house for him. Therefore, your servant has found _courage_ to pray before you.

###### v26
So now, O Yahweh, you yourself _are_ God, and you have spoken to your servant this good thing.

###### v27
And now may you begin to bless the house of your servant _to continue forever_ ^[Literally "to be forever"] before you, for you, O Yahweh, have blessed. And it will be blessed forever."