---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 8
---

[[1 Chr-07|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-09|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now Benjamin fathered Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,

###### v2
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.

###### v3
And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud,

###### v4
Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,

###### v5
Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.

###### v6
And these _are_ the sons of Ehud (these were heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] for the inhabitants of Geba, and they took them away to Manahath):

###### v7
Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, who took them away. And he fathered Uzza and Ahihud.

###### v8
And Shaharaim fathered _children_ in the fields of Moab after he had sent them away--Hushim and Baara, his wives.

###### v9
And he fathered by Hodesh his wife Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,

###### v10
Jeuz, Sakia, and Mirmah. These _were_ his sons, heads of the _families_. ^[Literally "fathers"]

###### v11
And by Husham he fathered Abitub and Elpaal.

###### v12
The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shemed (he built Ono and Lod with _its towns_), ^[Literally "her daughters"]

###### v13
and Beriah and Shema who _were_ the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] of the inhabitants of Aijalon (they themselves chased away the inhabitants of Gath).

###### v14
Now Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth,

###### v15
Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,

###### v16
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha _were_ sons of Beriah.

###### v17
And Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,

###### v18
Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab _were_ the sons of Elpaal.

###### v19
And Jakim, Zikri, Zabdi,

###### v20
Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,

###### v21
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath _were_ the sons of Shimei.

###### v22
And Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,

###### v23
Abdon, Zikri, Hanan,

###### v24
Hananiah, Elam, Antothijah,

###### v25
Iphdeiah, and Peniel _were_ the sons of Shashak.

###### v26
And Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,

###### v27
Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zikri _were_ the sons of Jeroham.

###### v28
These _were_ the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] according to their generations, chiefs. These lived in Jerusalem.

###### v29
And _Jeiel_ ^[The name Jeiel comes from [[1 Chr-09#v35|1 Chronicles 9:35;]] it has dropped out of the text here] the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon. And the name of his wife _was_ Maacah.

###### v30
And his firstborn son _was_ Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab,

###### v31
Gedor, Ahio, Zeker,

###### v32
and Mikloth (he fathered Shimeah). Now these also lived nearby their brothers in Jerusalem with their kinsmen.

###### v33
And Ner fathered Kish, and Kish fathered Saul, and Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchi-Shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

###### v34
And the son of Jonathan _was_ Merib-baal, and Merib-baal fathered Micah.

###### v35
And the sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.

###### v36
And Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza.

###### v37
And Moza fathered Binea; Raphah _was_ his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son.

###### v38
And Azel had six sons, and these _are_ their names: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these _were_ the sons of Azel.

###### v39
And the sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.

###### v40
And the sons of Ulam were men _who were_ mighty warriors, bowmen, and _they had_ many sons and grandsons, one hundred and fifty. All these were Benjaminites.