---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 24
---

[[1 Chr-23|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-25|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And as for the sons of Aaron, _these were_ their divisions. The sons of Aaron _were_ Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.

###### v2
And Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and _they had no sons_, ^[Literally "sons were not to them"] so Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests.

###### v3
And David, with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their appointments for their service.

###### v4
And more sons of Eleazar were found as heads of the men than the sons of Ithamar, so they divided them to the sons of Eleazar _to be_ sixteen heads over the house of the fathers, and to the sons of Ithamar over the house of the fathers _were_ eight _heads_.

###### v5
They divided them by lot _all alike_, ^[Literally "these with those"] for they were commanders of the sanctuary and commanders of God from among the sons of Eleazar and the sons of Ithamar.

###### v6
And Shemaiah the son of Nethanel, the scribe, from the Levites, recorded them before the king, the princes, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] of the priests and Levites, one father's house drawn by Lot for Eleazar and one drawn by lot for Ithamar.

###### v7
And the first lot went out to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,

###### v8
the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,

###### v9
the fifth to Malkijah, the sixth to Mijamin,

###### v10
the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,

###### v11
the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shekaniah,

###### v12
the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,

###### v13
the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,

###### v14
the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,

###### v15
the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Ha-Pizzez,

###### v16
the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Ezekiel,

###### v17
the twenty-first to Jakin, the twenty-second to Gamul,

###### v18
the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.

###### v19
These _were_ their appointments for their service to come into the house of Yahweh according to their custom by the hand of Aaron their father, as Yahweh the God of Israel had commanded him.

###### v20
And as for the remainder of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.

###### v21
Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the chief.

###### v22
Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons Shelomoth, Jahath.

###### v23
Of the sons of Jeriah, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.

###### v24
The sons of Uzziel, Micah; the sons of Micah, Shamur.

###### v25
The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.

###### v26
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah, his son. ^[Or "Beno"]

###### v27
The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, his son, ^[Or "Beno"] Shoham, Zakkur, and Ibri.

###### v28
Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.

###### v29
Of Kish: the sons of Kish, Jerahmeel.

###### v30
And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These _were_ the sons of the Levites according to the house of their fathers.

###### v31
And lots were also cast _for_ these, just as their brothers, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] for the priests and for the Levites the fathers, _on the principle of the chief and younger brother alike_. ^[Literally "the head like his brother the younger"]