---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 20
---

[[1 Chr-19|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-21|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And it happened _that_ _in the spring time of year_, ^[Literally "at the time of the returning of the year"] the time _when_ kings go out _to battle_, Joab led the troops of the army and destroyed the land of the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] And he came and besieged Rabbah, but David remained in Jerusalem. And Joab struck Rabbah and destroyed it.

###### v2
And David took the crown of their king from his head and found it to weigh a talent of gold. And in it _was_ a precious stone. Then it was _placed_ upon the head of David. And he brought out the booty of the city, a large amount.

###### v3
And the people who _were_ in it he brought out, and _he set them to work with saws and iron implements and axes_. ^[The translation comes from [[2 Sam-12#v31|2 Samuel 12:31]] since the Hebrew text here is uncertain] Thus David did to all the cities of the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] Then David returned, and all the nation _went_ with him.

###### v4
And after this there arose a war in Gezer with the Philistines. Then Sibbecai the Hushathite struck down Sippai, one of the descendants of the Rephaim. And they were subdued.

###### v5
And again there was war with the Philistines. And Elhanan son of Jair struck down Lahmi, the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear _was_ like a weaver's beam.

###### v6
And again there was war in Gath. And there was a _very tall_ ^[Literally "measured"] man _there_, and _he had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in all_. ^[Literally "and his fingers, six and six, twenty-four"] He himself _was_ also a descendant of the Rephaim.

###### v7
And he taunted Israel, but Jehonathan son of Shimea, brother of David, struck him down.

###### v8
These were born to the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.