---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 12
---

[[1 Chr-11|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-13|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now these are the ones who came to David at Ziklag while he was still shut up because _of Saul_, ^[Literally "of the face of Saul"] the son of Kish. And they _were_ the mighty warriors helping _with_ the war.

###### v2
_They were_ armed with _the_ bow, _able to shoot_ right-handed or left-handed, _slinging_ stones or _shooting_ arrows with the bow; _they were_ kinsmen of Saul from Benjamin.

###### v3
The leader _was_ Ahiezer, then Jehoash, sons of Shemaah the Gibeonite; Jeiel and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth; Beracah; Jehu the Anathothite;

###### v4
Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty warrior among the thirty _who was_ over the thirty; ^[[[1 Chr-12#v5|1 Chronicles 12:5]] begins here in the Hebrew Bible] Jeremiah; Jahaziel; Johanan; Jozabad the Gederathite;

###### v5
 ^[[[1 Chr-12#v5|1 Chronicles 12:5–40]][[1 Chr-12#v6|]][[1 Chr-12#v7|]][[1 Chr-12#v8|]][[1 Chr-12#v9|]][[1 Chr-12#v10|]][[1 Chr-12#v11|]][[1 Chr-12#v12|]][[1 Chr-12#v13|]][[1 Chr-12#v14|]][[1 Chr-12#v15|]][[1 Chr-12#v16|]][[1 Chr-12#v17|]][[1 Chr-12#v18|]][[1 Chr-12#v19|]][[1 Chr-12#v20|]][[1 Chr-12#v21|]][[1 Chr-12#v22|]][[1 Chr-12#v23|]][[1 Chr-12#v24|]][[1 Chr-12#v25|]][[1 Chr-12#v26|]][[1 Chr-12#v27|]][[1 Chr-12#v28|]][[1 Chr-12#v29|]][[1 Chr-12#v30|]][[1 Chr-12#v31|]][[1 Chr-12#v32|]][[1 Chr-12#v33|]][[1 Chr-12#v34|]][[1 Chr-12#v35|]][[1 Chr-12#v36|]][[1 Chr-12#v37|]][[1 Chr-12#v38|]][[1 Chr-12#v39|]][[1 Chr-12#v40|]] in the English Bible is 12:6–41 in the Hebrew Bible] Eluzai; Jerimoth; Bealiah; Shemariah; Shephatiah the Hariphite;

###### v6
Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, and Jashobeam the Korahites;

###### v7
Joelah and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham from the Gedor.

###### v8
And from the Gadites, valiant mighty warriors, _soldiers fit for war_, ^[Literally "men of battle for the war"] expert with shield and spear, defected to David at the fortress toward the wilderness. And _they had faces like lions_ ^[Literally "faces of a lion _were_ their faces"] _and were_ swift as gazelles upon the mountains.

###### v9
Ezer the chief, Obadiah second, Eliab third,

###### v10
Mishmannah fourth, Jeremiah fifth,

###### v11
Attai sixth, Eliel seventh,

###### v12
Jehonan eighth, Elzabad ninth,

###### v13
Jeremiah tenth, Macbannai eleventh.

###### v14
These _were_ the sons of Gad, leaders of the army. The smallest one _was_ as a hundred, and the greatest as a thousand.

###### v15
These _were_ they who crossed the Jordan in the first month, when it was filled over its banks. And they put to flight all _who were in_ the valley to the east and to the west.

###### v16
And some of the sons of Benjamin and _from_ Judah came to the fortress, to David.

###### v17
And David went out _to meet them_ ^[Literally "before them"] and answered and said to them, "If you come in peace to me, to help me, _my heart will be joined with you_, ^[Literally "the heart will be to me to you together"] but if _you come_ to betray me to my adversaries, although _there is_ no wrong on my hands, may the God of our fathers see and pass judgment."

###### v18
Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, chief of the thirty _who said_:
"_We are_ yours, O David!
And _we are_ with you, O son of Jesse!
Peace! Peace to you, and peace to those who help you,
for your God helps you."
So David appointed them as heads of the troops.

###### v19
And some Manassites deserted to David when he came with the Philistines to the battle against Saul, but he did not help them, for the rulers of the Philistines sent him away upon counsel, saying, "He will desert to his master Saul at _the cost of_ our heads."

###### v20
When he went to Ziklag some Manassites deserted to him: Adnah, Jehozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai, heads of the thousands that _were_ for Manasseh.

###### v21
And they themselves helped David against the troops, for all of them _were_ mighty men of strength and were commanders in the army.

###### v22
_Day in and day out_ ^[Literally "for to the time of day to the day"] they came to David to help him until _there was_ a great army, like the army of God.

###### v23
And these are the numbers of the chiefs of those prepared for the army who came to David at Hebron to turn the kingdom of Saul over to him according to the word of Yahweh.

###### v24
The sons of Judah bearing shield and spear: six thousand eight hundred armed troops.

###### v25
From the men of Simeon, mighty warriors of strength for war: seven thousand one hundred.

###### v26
From the Levites: four thousand six hundred.

###### v27
Jehoiada the chief officer of _the house of_ Aaron, and with him, three thousand seven hundred.

###### v28
And Zadok, a young man, a mighty warrior of strength, and the house of his father: twenty-two commanders.

###### v29
From the men of Benjamin, kinsmen of Saul, three thousand, and _even still_ ^[Literally "and even they"] the majority of them _remained loyal_ ^[Literally "keeping the responsibility"] to the house of Saul.

###### v30
And from the men of Ephraim: twenty thousand eight hundred mighty warriors of strength, famous men in the house of their fathers.

###### v31
And from the half-tribe of Manasseh: eighteen thousand who were designated by name to come to make David king.

###### v32
And from the men of Issachar: _men who were skilled in understanding the times_ ^[Literally "men who knew the understanding of the times"] to know what Israel should do. Their chiefs _were_ two hundred, and all their kinsmen _were_ under their command.

###### v33
From Zebulun, those who went out armed, equipped for battle with all the weapons of war: fifty thousand to help David _with singleness of purpose_. ^[Literally "with not heart and heart"]

###### v34
From Naphtali: one thousand commanders; and _those_ with them with shield and spear: thirty-seven thousand.

###### v35
From the Danites, _those_ equipped for battle: twenty-eight thousand six hundred.

###### v36
And from Asher, those who went out armed _and_ prepared for battle: forty thousand.

###### v37
And from beyond the Jordan, from the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh, with all _their_ weapons of war for battle: one hundred and twenty thousand.

###### v38
All these _were_ men of war arrayed in battle line _with a whole heart_. ^[Literally "with heart well"] They came to Hebron to make David king over all Israel. Likewise, all the rest of Israel _had_ one heart to make David king.

###### v39
And they were there with David three days, eating and drinking, for their kinsmen were prepared for them.

###### v40
And also their relatives, as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought food on donkeys, on camels, on mules, and on oxen--provisions of flour, cakes of figs, raisin cakes, wine and oil, cattle and sheep in abundance, for _there was_ great joy in Israel.