---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 16
---

[[1 Chr-15|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-17|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And they brought the ark of God and set it inside the tent that David had pitched for it. And they offered burnt offerings and fellowship offerings before God.

###### v2
And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Yahweh.

###### v3
And he distributed to every man of Israel, both men and women, to each _person_ a loaf of bread, a cake of dates, and a cake of raisins.

###### v4
Then he appointed some of the Levites as ministers before the ark of Yahweh, to invoke, thank, and praise Yahweh the God of Israel.

###### v5
Asaph _was_ chief, and his second _was_ Zechariah; Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom, and Jeiel _were_ on harps and lyres. And Asaph played on the cymbals.

###### v6
And Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests _blew_ on the trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.

###### v7
Then on that day David first appointed to give thanks to Yahweh by the hand of Asaph and his brothers.

###### v8
Give thanks to Yahweh; call upon his name;
make known his deeds among the nations!

###### v9
Sing to him; sing praises to him;
tell of his wondrous works!

###### v10
Glory in his holy name;
let the hearts of those seeking Yahweh rejoice!

###### v11
Seek Yahweh and his strength;
seek his face continually!

###### v12
Remember his wonderful works that he has done,
his wonders and the judgments of his mouth,

###### v13
O offspring of Israel, his servant,
O sons of Jacob, his chosen ones!

###### v14
He _is_ Yahweh our God;
his judgments _are_ in all the earth.

###### v15
Remember his covenant forever,
the word he commanded for a thousand generations,

###### v16
that he _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] with Abraham,
his sworn oath to Isaac.

###### v17
And he confirmed it to Jacob as a statute,
an everlasting covenant to Israel,

###### v18
saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan,
the portion of your inheritance."

###### v19
When you were few in number, little,
and sojourners _were_ in it,

###### v20
when they wandered from nation to nation,
and from one kingdom to another people,

###### v21
he did not allow anyone to oppress them,
and he rebuked kings on their account,

###### v22
_saying,_ "You must not touch my anointed
nor do harm to my prophets!"

###### v23
Sing to Yahweh, all the earth!
Proclaim his salvation from day to day!

###### v24
Proclaim his glory among the nations,
his wondrous works among the peoples!

###### v25
For Yahweh _is_ great and greatly praised,
and he is feared among all gods.

###### v26
For all the gods of the nations _are_ idols,
but Yahweh made the heavens.

###### v27
Splendor and majesty _are_ before him;
strength and joy _are_ in his place.

###### v28
Ascribe to Yahweh, O clans of the nations,
ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength!

###### v29
Ascribe to Yahweh the glory of his name!
Lift up an offering and come before him!
Bow down to Yahweh in the splendor of holiness!

###### v30
Tremble before him, all the earth;
surely the world shall not be shaken.

###### v31
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad,
and let them tell the peoples, "Yahweh reigns!"

###### v32
Let the sea roar and its fullness;
let the field rejoice and all that _is_ in it.

###### v33
Then the trees of the forest shall sing for joy before Yahweh,
for he comes to judge the earth.

###### v34
Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he _is_ good;
his loyal love _is_ everlasting.

###### v35
Then say, "Save us, O God of our salvation;
gather us and rescue us from the nations
that _we may_ give thanks to your holy name
_and_ glory in your praise.

###### v36
Blessed be Yahweh the God of Israel,
from everlasting to everlasting!"
Then all the people said, "Amen!" and praised Yahweh.

###### v37
So he ^[That is, David] left Asaph and his brothers there before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to minister before the ark regularly _as each day required_, ^[Literally "according to the word of a day with respect to its day"]

###### v38
and _he left_ Obed-Edom with his sixty-eight brothers. And Obed-Edom, the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah _were_ gatekeepers.

###### v39
And _he left_ Zadok the priest and his brothers the priests before the tabernacle of Yahweh at the high place which _was_ at Gibeon

###### v40
to offer burnt offerings regularly to Yahweh on the altar of burnt offering, morning and evening, according to all that was written in the law of Yahweh that he commanded concerning Israel.

###### v41
And with them _were_ Heman and Jeduthun and the remainder of those chosen, who were designated by name to give thanks to Yahweh, for his loyal love _is_ everlasting.

###### v42
And Heman and Jeduthun with them _had_ trumpets and cymbals for making music, along with instruments for the song of God. And the sons of Jeduthun _were_ at the gate.

###### v43
Then all the people went each to his house, and David turned to bless his household.