---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 26
---

[[1 Chr-25|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-27|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
As for the working groups of the gatekeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, from the sons of Asaph.

###### v2
And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,

###### v3
Elam the fifth, Jehohana the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.

###### v4
And Obed-Edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sachar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth,

###### v5
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; for God blessed him.

###### v6
And to Shemaiah his son were sons born who _were_ rulers in the house of their father, for they _were_ mighty warriors of ability.

###### v7
The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose brothers _were_ sons of ability, Elihu and Semakiah.

###### v8
All these from the sons of Obed-Edom, they and their sons, and their brothers _were_ men of ability with strength for service; sixty-two of Obed-Edom.

###### v9
And Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, sons of ability, eighteen.

###### v10
And Hosah, from the sons of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief (though he was not firstborn, his father appointed him as chief),

###### v11
Hilkiah the second, Tabaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brothers of Hosah _were_ thirteen.

###### v12
These working groups of gatekeepers, corresponding to the chief men, had responsibilities like their brothers to serve in the house of Yahweh.

###### v13
And they cast lots, small and great alike, by their fathers' houses, _for their gates_. ^[Literally "for gate and gate"]

###### v14
And the lot fell to the east to Shelemiah. As for Zechariah his son, _a wise counselor_, ^[Literally "giving counsel with understanding"] they cast lots. And his lot came out for the north.

###### v15
To Obed-Edom _went out_ the south, and to his sons, the storehouses.

###### v16
For Shuppim and Hosah _it went out_ for the west, at the gate of Shalleketh, on the road that goes up, guard for guard.

###### v17
To the east, six Levites; to the north, four daily; to the south, four daily; and at the storerooms, two _by_ two.

###### v18
For the court to the west, four at the road, two at the court.

###### v19
These _were_ the working groups of the gatekeepers among the sons of the Korahites and among the sons of Merari.

###### v20
And of the Levites: Ahijah _was_ over the treasuries of the house of God and over the treasuries of the sanctified objects.

###### v21
The sons of Ladan: the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli.

###### v22
The sons of Jehieli, Zetham and Joel his brother, _were_ over the treasuries of the house of Yahweh.

###### v23
Of the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, _and_ the Ozzielites:

###### v24
Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, _was_ commander over the treasuries.

###### v25
And his brothers: from Eliezer _were_ Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zikri his son, and Shelomoth his son.

###### v26
That Shelomoth and his brothers _were_ over all the treasuries of the sanctified objects that King David and the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] to the commanders of thousands and hundreds and the commanders of the army had dedicated.

###### v27
From the battles and from the spoil they had dedicated _these things_ to strengthen the house of Yahweh.

###### v28
And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah had dedicated--all the dedicated gifts _were_ under the hand of Shelomith and his brothers.

###### v29
For the Izharites: Kenaniah and his sons _were appointed_ to the duties outside of Israel as officials and as judges.

###### v30
For the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his brothers, one thousand seven hundred men of ability, _were_ over the administration of Israel beyond the Jordan westward, for all the work of Yahweh and for the service of the king.

###### v31
For the Hebronites: Jeriah the chief of the Hebronites for the genealogy for the _families_. ^[Literally "fathers"] (In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were examined, and there was found among them mighty warriors of strength at Jazer in Gilead.)

###### v32
And his brothers, sons of ability, _were_ two thousand seven hundred heads of the _families_, ^[Literally "fathers"] and King David appointed them over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, for every matter of God and matter of the king.