---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 7
---

[[1 Chr-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.

###### v2
The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers' houses; for Tola, mighty warriors of their generations, their number in the days of David _were_ twenty-two thousand six hundred.

###### v3
The sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Isshiah; all five of them _were_ chiefs. ^[Or "heads"]

###### v4
And in addition to them, according to their generations, according to the house of their fathers, _were_ troops of the army for war: thirty-six thousand. For _they had_ ^[Literally "there were"] many wives and sons.

###### v5
Now their kinsmen belonging to all the clans of Issachar _were_ in all eighty-seven thousand mighty warriors, enrolled according to their genealogy.

###### v6
_The sons of_ Benjamin: Bela, Beker, and Jediael, three.

###### v7
The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri, five, _the_ heads of _the_ house of _the_ fathers, mighty warriors. And their enrollment by genealogy _was_ twenty-two thousand thirty-four.

###### v8
The sons of Beker: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these _were_ the sons of Beker.

###### v9
And their enrollment by genealogy according to their generations, _as_ heads of the house of their fathers, mighty warriors, _was_ twenty thousand two hundred.

###### v10
The sons of Jediael: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar.

###### v11
All these _were_ the sons of Jediael according to the heads of the _families_, ^[Literally "fathers"] mighty warriors, seventeen thousand two hundred, _able to go to war_. ^[Literally "going out to the army to the war"]

###### v12
And Shuppim and Huppim _were_ the sons of Ir; Hushim, the son of Aher.

###### v13
The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, the _descendants_ ^[Literally "sons"] of Bilhah.

###### v14
The sons of Manasseh: Asriel, whom his Aramean concubine bore; she gave birth to Makir the father of Gilead.

###### v15
And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim. And the name of his sister _was_ Maacah. And the name of the second, Zelophehad. And Zelophehad had daughters.

###### v16
And Maacah the wife of Machir gave birth to a son, and she called his name Peresh. And the name of his brother _was_ Sheresh, and his sons _were_ Ulam and Rekem.

###### v17
The sons of Ulam: Bedan. These _were_ the sons of Gilead the son of Makir, son of Manasseh.

###### v18
And his sister, Hammolecheth, gave birth to Ishhod, Abiezer, and Mahlah.

###### v19
The sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam.

###### v20
The sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah and Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son,

###### v21
Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead. And the men of Gath who were born in the land killed them because they came down to take their livestock.

###### v22
And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.

###### v23
And Ephraim went in to his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to a son. And he called his name Beriah because disaster _had been_ upon his house.

###### v24
And his daughter _was_ Sheerah, and she built Lower and Upper Beth-Horon and Uzzen-Sheerah.

###### v25
And Rephah _was_ his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, Tahan his son,

###### v26
Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,

###### v27
Nun his son, Joshua his son.

###### v28
And their property and their dwellings _were_ Bethel and _its towns_. ^[Literally "her daughters," here and below] And to the east, Naaran. And to the west, Gezer and its towns, and Shechem and its towns, up to Aija and its towns.

###### v29
And along the borders of the sons of Manasseh: Beth-Shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, and Dor and its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph the son of Israel.

###### v30
The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and their sister Serah.

###### v31
The sons of Beriah: Heber and Malkiel, who _was_ the father of Birzayith. ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)]

###### v32
And Heber fathered Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shua.

###### v33
The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These _were_ the sons of Japhlet.

###### v34
The sons of Shemer: Ahi, Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.

###### v35
The sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal.

###### v36
The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah,

###### v37
Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera.

###### v38
The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, Pispah, and Ara.

###### v39
The sons of Ulla: Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia.

###### v40
All of these _were_ the sons of Asher, heads of the house of the fathers, chosen mighty warriors, heads of the princes. And their number enrolled by genealogy, in the army for the war, _was_ twenty-six thousand men.