---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 18
---

[[1 Chr-17|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-19|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And it happened _that_ after David struck the Philistines and subdued them, he captured Gath and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines.

###### v2
And he struck Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David, bearing tribute.

###### v3
And David struck Hadadezer, king of Zobah-Hamath, as he set up his monument at the Euphrates River.

###### v4
And David captured from him one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. And David hamstrung all the chariot horses but left one hundred of them _to_ remain _for_ chariots.

###### v5
And when the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah-Hamath, David struck down twenty-two thousand men of Aram.

###### v6
Then David set up _garrisons_ in Aram of Damascus, and the Arameans became servants to David, bearing tribute. And Yahweh delivered David wherever he went.

###### v7
And David took small round shields of gold that were upon the servants of Hadadezer and brought them _to_ Jerusalem.

###### v8
And from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David captured very much bronze. Solomon made the bronze sea with it along with the columns and objects of bronze.

###### v9
And when Tou the king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadadezer the king of Zobah,

###### v10
he sent Hadoram his son to King David to ask him for peace and to bless him because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Tou _had been at war_ ^[Literally "a man of battles"] with Hadadezer. And _he brought with him_ all the objects of gold, silver, and bronze.

###### v11
King David dedicated these also to Yahweh, along with the silver and gold that he had taken from all the nations, from Edom, Moab, the sons of Ammon, the Philistines, and Amalek.

###### v12
And Abishai son of Zeruiah defeated eighteen thousand of Edom in the Valley of Salt.

###### v13
And he put garrisons in Edom, and all Edom became servants to David. And Yahweh delivered David wherever he went.

###### v14
So David reigned over all Israel, and _he administered justice_ ^[Literally "he was a doer of justice"] and righteousness to all his people.

###### v15
And Joab son of Zeruiah _was_ over the army, and Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud _was_ recorder.

###### v16
And Zadok son of Ahitub and Abimelech son of Abiathar _were_ priests, and Shavsha _was_ secretary.

###### v17
And Benaiah son of Jehoiada _was_ over the Kerethites and the Pelethites. And the sons of David _were_ chief officials under the hand of the king.