---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 2
---

[[1 Chr-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
These _are_ the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,

###### v2
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

###### v3
The sons of Judah: Er, Onan and Shelah; _these_ three were born to him from Bathshua the Canaanite. Now Er, Judah's firstborn, _was_ evil in the sight of Yahweh, and he put him to death.

###### v4
And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore Perez and Zerah to him. The sons of Judah _were_ five in all.

###### v5
The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.

###### v6
The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, five in all.

###### v7
The son of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who acted unfaithfully in the matter of the devoted thing.

###### v8
And the son of Ethan _was_ Azariah.

###### v9
The sons of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb.

###### v10
And Ram fathered Amminadab, and Amminadab fathered Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah.

###### v11
And Nahshon fathered Salma, and Salma fathered Boaz.

###### v12
And Boaz fathered Obed, and Obed fathered Jesse.

###### v13
And Jesse fathered Eliab his firstborn, Abinadab the second, Shimea the third,

###### v14
Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,

###### v15
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh.

###### v16
And their sisters _were_ Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three.

###### v17
And Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa _was_ Jether the Ishmaelite.

###### v18
And Caleb the son of Hezron fathered children by Azubah his wife and by Jerioth. And these _were_ her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.

###### v19
And when Azubah died, Caleb married ^[Or "took"] Ephrathah, and she bore Hur to him.

###### v20
And Hur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Bezalel.

###### v21
And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Makir the father of Gilead. And he married ^[Or "took"] her when he was sixty years old. And she bore Segub to him.

###### v22
And Segub fathered Jair, and he had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.

###### v23
And Geshur and Aram took Havvoth-Jair from them, Kenath and its villages, sixty cities. All these _were_ the _descendants_ ^[Literally "sons"] of Makir, the father of Gilead.

###### v24
And after the death of Hezron in Caleb-Ephrathah, Abijah the wife of Hezron bore to him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa.

###### v25
And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.

###### v26
And Jerahmeel had another wife, and her name _was_ Atarah. She _was_ the mother of Onam.

###### v27
The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.

###### v28
And the sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai _were_ Nadab and Abishur.

###### v29
And the name of the wife of Abishur _was_ Abihail, and she bore to him Ahban and Molid.

###### v30
And the sons of Nadab _were_ Seled and Appaim. And Seled died without children.

###### v31
And the sons of Appaim: Ishi. The sons of Ishi: Sheshan. The sons of Sheshan: Ahlai.

###### v32
And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan. And Jether died without children.

###### v33
And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the children of Jerahmeel.

###### v34
And Sheshan had no sons, only daughters, but Sheshan had an Egyptian slave, and his name _was_ Jarha.

###### v35
So Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his slave for a wife, and she bore to him Attai.

###### v36
And Attai fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad.

###### v37
And Zabad fathered Ephlal, and Ephlal fathered Obed.

###### v38
And Obed fathered Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah.

###### v39
And Azariah fathered Helez, and Helez fathered Eleasah.

###### v40
And Eleasah fathered Sismai, and Sismai fathered Shallum.

###### v41
And Shallum fathered Jekamiah, and Jekamiah fathered Elishama.

###### v42
And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his firstborn; he _was_ the father of Ziph. The sons of Mareshah: Hebron.

###### v43
And the sons of Hebron _were_ Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema.

###### v44
And Shema fathered Raham, the father of Jorkeam. And Rekem fathered Shammai.

###### v45
And the son of Shammai _was_ Maon, and Maon _was_ the father of Beth-Zur.

###### v46
And Ephah, the concubine of Caleb, gave birth to Haran, Moza, and Gazez. And Haran fathered Gazez.

###### v47
And the sons of Jahdai _were_ Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.

###### v48
Maacah, the concubine of Caleb, gave birth to Sheber and Tirhanah.

###### v49
She also gave birth to Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb _was_ Acsah.

###### v50
These were the _descendants_ ^[Literally "sons"] of Caleb.
The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-Jearim,

###### v51
Salma the father of Bethlehem, _and_ Hareph the father of Beth-Gader.

###### v52
And Shobal the father of Kiriath-Jearim had _other_ sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.

###### v53
And the families of Kiriath-Jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.

###### v54
The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Ataroth-Beth-Joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.

###### v55
And the families of the scribes who lived _at_ Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and the Sucathites. These _were_ the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Recab.