---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 3
---

[[1 Chr-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
These were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn, Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelite; the second, Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelite;

###### v2
the third, Absalom, the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah, the son of Haggith;

###### v3
the fifth, Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah.

###### v4
Six were born to him in Hebron. And he reigned there seven years and six months. And he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem.

###### v5
And these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four by Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel;

###### v6
then Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet,

###### v7
Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,

###### v8
Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.

###### v9
All these _were_ the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines. And Tamar was their sister.

###### v10
Now the son of Solomon _was_ Rehoboam; Abijah _was_ his son, Asa _was_ his son, Jehoshaphat _was_ his son,

###### v11
Joram _was_ his son, Ahaziah _was_ his son, Joash _was_ his son,

###### v12
Amaziah _was_ his son, Azariah _was_ his son, Jotham _was_ his son,

###### v13
Ahaz _was_ his son, Hezekiah _was_ his son, Manasseh _was_ his son,

###### v14
Amon _was_ his son, Josiah _was_ his son.

###### v15
And the sons of Josiah: Johanan the firstborn, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.

###### v16
And the _descendants_ ^[Literally "sons"] of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.

###### v17
And the sons of Jeconiah, the captive: Shealtiel his son,

###### v18
Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.

###### v19
And the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister,

###### v20
and Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-Hesed, five.

###### v21
And the sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. The sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah.

###### v22
And the sons of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six.

###### v23
And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.

###### v24
And the sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani, seven.