---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 23
---

[[1 Chr-22|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-24|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now David _was_ old and full of days. And he made Solomon his son king over Israel.

###### v2
And he assembled all the commanders of Israel and the priests and the Levites.

###### v3
And the Levites thirty years old and above were counted, and their number according to their head count for the men _was_ thirty-eight thousand.

###### v4
Of these, _David said,_ "Twenty-four thousand _are_ to direct the work of the house of Yahweh, along with six thousand judges and officials,

###### v5
four thousand gatekeepers, _and_ four thousand offering praise with the instruments that I have made for praise."

###### v6
And David organized them _in_ divisions according to the sons of Levi: to Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

###### v7
For the Gershonites _were_ Ladan and Shimei.

###### v8
The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief and Zetham and Joel, three.

###### v9
The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three. These _were_ the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] of Ladan.

###### v10
And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah; these four _were_ the sons of Shimei.

###### v11
And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second, but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons. They were enrolled as one for the house of a father.

###### v12
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.

###### v13
The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was set apart to consecrate the most holy things. He and his sons _were_ to burn offerings forever before Yahweh to serve him and to bless in his name forever.

###### v14
But Moses the man of God _and_ his sons were reckoned among the tribe of Levi.

###### v15
The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.

###### v16
The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief.

###### v17
And the sons of Eliezer were Rehabiah, the head. And Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.

###### v18
The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief.

###### v19
The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.

###### v20
The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief and Isshiah the second.

###### v21
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.

###### v22
And Eleazar died, and he did not have sons, but only daughters. And the sons of Kish, their relatives, married them.

###### v23
The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three.

###### v24
These _were_ the sons of Levi according to the house of their fathers, the heads of the _families_, ^[Literally "fathers"] according to their enrollment, by the number of the names, according to their head count, _who were to_ do the work of the service of the house of Yahweh, from twenty years old and above.

###### v25
For David said, "Yahweh, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people, and he dwells in Jerusalem forever.

###### v26
And also, the Levites do not _need_ to carry the tabernacle and all its vessels for its service."

###### v27
For by the last words of David, they _are_ the number of the sons of Levi, from twenty years old and above.

###### v28
For their station _was_ _to assist_ ^[Literally "for the hand of"] the sons of Aaron with the service of the house of Yahweh, over the courtyards, over the chambers, and over the cleansing of all the sanctified objects, and _with_ the work of the service of the house of God,

###### v29
and with the rows of bread, the flour, the grain offering, the wafers of unleavened bread, the baked offering, the offering mixed with oil, and for all the amounts and measurements.

###### v30
And _they were_ to stand _every morning_, ^[Literally "in the morning, in the morning"] thanking and praising Yahweh, and likewise in the evening,

###### v31
and for every burnt offering offered to Yahweh, on Sabbaths, on new moon festivals, and at the appointed feasts, according to the customary number _required of them_, ^[Literally "over them"] regularly before Yahweh.

###### v32
And they shall keep the responsibility of the tent of assembly, ^[Or "meeting"] the responsibility of the sanctified objects, and the responsibility of the sons of Aaron, their brothers, to serve the house of Yahweh.