---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 11
---

[[1 Chr-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then all Israel gathered to David in Hebron, saying, "Look--we are your flesh and bones.

###### v2
_For some time now_, ^[Literally "also yesterday also in the past"] even when Saul was king, you were _the one who led the army of Israel in battle_. ^[Literally "the one who went out and brought in Israel"] And Yahweh your God said to you, 'You will shepherd my people Israel and will be leader over my people Israel.'"

###### v3
Then all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a covenant with them at Hebron in the presence of Yahweh. And they anointed David as king over Israel according to the word of Yahweh by the hand of Samuel.

###### v4
And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (that _is_ Jebus). And the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, _were_ there.

###### v5
And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, "You will not enter here." But David captured the stronghold of Zion; that _is,_ the city of David.

###### v6
Then David said, "Whoever strikes the Jebusites first will be chief and commander." And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first and became chief.

###### v7
And David lived in the fortress. Therefore they called it the city of David.

###### v8
And he built the city all around from the Millo and up to the circuit. And Joab restored the remainder of the city.

###### v9
And David _became greater and greater_. ^[Literally "increased certainly and _in_ greatness"] And Yahweh of hosts _was_ with him.

###### v10
Now these _are_ the chiefs of the mighty men who _were_ for David, who gave him strong support in his kingdom, together with all Israel to make him king according to the word of Yahweh concerning Israel.

###### v11
And this _is_ the numbering of the mighty warriors who _were_ for David: Jashobeam son of Hachmoni _was_ chief of the three. He himself raised his spear against three hundred _whom he_ killed on one occasion.

###### v12
And after him _was_ Eleazar son of Dodo the Ahohite. He _was_ among the three mighty warriors.

###### v13
He himself _was_ with David at Pas-Dammim when the Philistines were gathered there for the battle. And there was a plot of the field filled with barley, and the people fled before the Philistines.

###### v14
But they took their stand in the middle of the plot and defended it. And they killed the Philistines. And Yahweh saved _them_ _with_ a great victory.

###### v15
And three of the thirty chiefs went down toward the rock to David at the cave of Adullam when the army of the Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim.

###### v16
And David _was_ then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines _was_ then in Bethlehem.

###### v17
And David had a craving, and he said, "Who could give me a drink of water from the well of Bethlehem that _is_ by the gate!"

###### v18
Then the three broke through into the camp of the Philistines and drew water from the well of Bethlehem that _was_ by the gate and brought _it_ and came to David. But David would not drink it and poured it out before Yahweh.

###### v19
And he said, "Far be it from me _that_ I would do this before my God. Shall I drink the lifeblood of these men? For _at the risk of their lives_ ^[Literally "against their lives"] they brought it." And he was not willing to drink it. These things the three mighty men did.

###### v20
Now Abishai the brother of Joab was himself the head of the three. ^[Other manuscripts have "thirty" which makes better sense in the context] And he roused himself with his spear against three hundred _whom he_ killed and _made_ a name for himself ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] among the three.

###### v21
_He was twice as renowned_ ^[Literally "he was glorified double"] among the three ^[Other manuscripts have "thirty," which makes better sense in the context] and was their commander. But he did not attain to the three.

###### v22
_And_ Benaiah the son of Jehoiada _was_ _a strong man_ ^[Literally "a son of a strong man"] from Kabzeel, _one who did_ great deeds. He himself struck down two _sons of_ Ariel of Moab. And he himself went down and struck down a lion within a pit on a snowy day.

###### v23
And he himself struck down an Egyptian man, a large man five cubits _tall_. And in the hand of the Egyptian _was_ a spear like a weaver's beam. But he went down to him with a club and seized the spear from the hand of the Egyptian and killed him with his own spear.

###### v24
These things Benaiah son of Jehoiada did and had a name among the three mighty warriors.

###### v25
He himself was certainly distinguished among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David appointed him over his bodyguard.

###### v26
Now the mighty warriors of the troops _were_ Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo from Bethlehem,

###### v27
Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,

###### v28
Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite,

###### v29
Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,

###### v30
Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite,

###### v31
Ittai the son of Ribai from Gibeah of the people of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,

###### v32
Hurai of the valleys of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,

###### v33
Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,

###### v34
the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jehonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite,

###### v35
Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,

###### v36
Hepher the Mekerathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,

###### v37
Hezro the Carmelite, Naari the son of Ezbai,

###### v38
Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri,

###### v39
Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, the bearer of the weapons of Joab the son of Zeruiah,

###### v40
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,

###### v41
Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,

###### v42
Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a leader of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,

###### v43
Hanan the son of Maacah, Jehoshaphat the Mithnite,

###### v44
Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite,

###### v45
Jediael the son of Shimri and Joha his brother the Tizite,

###### v46
Eliel the Mahavite, Jeribai and Joshaviah the sons of Elnaam, Ithmah the Moabite,

###### v47
Eliel, Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.