---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 9
---

[[1 Chr-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
So all Israel was enrolled in genealogy. And behold, they were written in the book of the kings of Israel. And Judah was taken away to Babylon on account of their sin.

###### v2
Now the first inhabitants who _were settled_ on their property in their cities _in_ Israel _were_ the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants.

###### v3
And some of the people of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem:

###### v4
Uthai the son of Ammihud, son of Omri, son of Imri, son of Bani, ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] from the sons of Perez, ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_)] the son of Judah.

###### v5
And from the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn and his sons.

###### v6
And from the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their brethren, six hundred and ninety.

###### v7
And from the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah;

###### v8
Ibneah the son of Jeroham; Elah the son of Uzzi, son of Michri; Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah;

###### v9
and their brethren according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty-six. All these men _were_ the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] in the house of their fathers.

###### v10
And from the priests: Jedaiah; Jehoiarib; Jakin;

###### v11
Azariah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, the commander of the house of God;

###### v12
Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pashhur, son of Malkijah; Maasai the son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer;

###### v13
and their kinsmen, heads of the house of their fathers, one thousand seven hundred and sixty mighty men _for_ the work of the service of the house of God.

###### v14
And from the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, from the sons of Merari;

###### v15
Bakbakkar; Heresh; Galal; Mattaniah the son of Mica, son of Zicri, son of Asaph;

###### v16
Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah the son of Asa, son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of Netophathite.

###### v17
And the gatekeepers _were_ Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their brethren (Shallum _was_ the chief);

###### v18
until then they _were_ gatekeepers at the gate of the king on the east _side_ toward the camps of the Levites.

###### v19
And Shallum the son of Kore, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah, and his kinsmen of the house of his fathers, the Korahites, _were_ over the work of the service, the guardians of the entrances to the tent, and their fathers _were_ over the camp of Yahweh, guardians of the entrance.

###### v20
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the leader over them _in time past_; ^[Or "before"] Yahweh _was_ with him.

###### v21
Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah _was_ gatekeeper at the doorway to the tent of assembly. ^[Or "meeting"]

###### v22
All of them were chosen as gatekeepers at the entrances, two hundred and twelve. They were enrolled by genealogies in their villages. They _were_ established _by_ David and Samuel the seer on account of their faithfulness.

###### v23
So they and their sons _were_ over the gates of the house of Yahweh at the house of the tent as guards.

###### v24
The gatekeepers _were_ on four sides: east, west, north, and south.

###### v25
And their brethren in their villages _were_ to come _every_ seven days _by turn_ ^[Literally "from time to time"] _to be_ with these.

###### v26
For the four mighty gatekeepers, they who _were_ Levites, _were entrusted_ ^[Literally "they in their faithfulness"] and _were_ over the chambers and over the storerooms of the house of God.

###### v27
And they lodged all around the house of God, for upon them _was_ a responsibility. And _they had charge of opening _the house of God_ every morning_. ^[Literally "they _were_ over the key and to morning to morning"]

###### v28
And some of them _were_ over the utensils of the service, for _they count them_ ^[Literally "in number"] _when_ they are brought in and _they count them_ ^[Literally "in number"] _when_ they are brought out.

###### v29
And some of them were appointed over the objects, over the objects of the sanctuary, and over the wheat flour and the wine, the olive oil, the frankincense, and the spices.

###### v30
And some of the sons of the priests mixed the fragrant ointment for the spices.

###### v31
And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite and _was entrusted_ ^[Literally "in faithfulness"] with the work of the pan breads.

###### v32
And from the sons of the Kohathites, some of their kinsmen _were_ over the _showbread_ ^[Literally "bread of the rows"] to prepare _it_ _every Sabbath_. ^[Literally "Sabbath Sabbath"]

###### v33
Now these _were_ the singers; the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] of the Levites _were_ in the chambers free from other service, for day and night _they were_ over them on the service.

###### v34
These _were_ the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] of the Levites according to their genealogies, leaders. These lived in Jerusalem.

###### v35
And _these_ lived in Gibeon: Jeiel the father of Gibeon. And the name of his wife _was_ Maacah.

###### v36
And his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,

###### v37
Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth.

###### v38
And Mikloth fathered Shimeam. And they also lived nearby their brothers in Jerusalem with their brothers.

###### v39
And Ner fathered Kish, and Kish fathered Saul, and Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchi-Shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

###### v40
And the son of Jonathan _was_ Meribaal. And Meribaal fathered Micah.

###### v41
And the sons of Micah _were_ Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, _and Ahaz._ ^[The name is drawn from [[1 Chr-08#v35|1 Chronicles 8:35;]] it has dropped out of the text here]

###### v42
And Ahaz fathered Jarah, and Jarah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza,

###### v43
and Moza fathered Binea; and Rephaiah _was_ his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.

###### v44
And Azel had six sons, and these _are_ their names: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These _were_ the sons of Azel.