---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 19
---

[[1 Chr-18|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-20|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And it happened _that_ after this Nahash the king of the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] died, and his son reigned in his place.

###### v2
And David said, "I will deal kindly with Hanun the son of Nahash because his father showed kindness to me." So David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. And the servants of David came to the land of the _Ammonites_, ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] to Hanun, to comfort him.

###### v3
But the princes of the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] said to Hanun, "_Do you think_ ^[Literally "In your eyes"] because David sent comforters to you _that_ David honors your father? Is it not for the purpose of exploring _so as_ to overthrow and spy out the land that his servants have come to you?"

###### v4
So Hanun took the servants of David and shaved them and cut off their garments at the middle, up to the buttocks, and sent them away.

###### v5
And they went and told David concerning the men, and he inquired of them, for the men were very disgraced. And the king said, "Dwell in Jericho until your beards grow out; then return."

###### v6
And when the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] saw that they made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] sent one thousand talents of silver to hire for themselves horses and chariots from Aram-Naharaim, Aram-Maacah, and Zobah.

###### v7
And they hired for themselves thirty-two thousand chariots and the king of Maacah and his people, and they came and encamped before Medeba. And the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] were gathered from their cities and came to the battle.

###### v8
And when David heard, he sent Joab and the entire army of mighty warriors.

###### v9
And the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] went out and took up positions for battle at the entrance of the city. And the kings who had come _were_ alone in the field.

###### v10
When Joab saw that _there was_ _a battle line_ ^[Literally "the face of the battle"] against him at the front and the back, he chose from among the chosen _men_ in Israel and arranged _them_ to meet Aram.

###### v11
And the remainder of the people he put in the hand of Abishai his brother, and they were arranged to meet the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"]

###### v12
And he said, "If Aram is too strong for me, then you must be a help to me, but if the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] are too strong for you, then I will help you.

###### v13
Be strong! Let us strengthen ourselves on behalf of our people and on behalf of the cities of our God. And may Yahweh do _what is_ good in his eyes."

###### v14
And Joab and the people who _were_ with him drew near before Aram for battle, and they fled before him.

###### v15
And when the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"] saw that Aram had fled, they also fled before Abishai his brother, and they came to the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.

###### v16
And when Aram saw that they were defeated before Israel, they sent messengers and brought out Aram, who _was from_ beyond the Euphrates, ^[Or "the river"] with Shophach the commander of the army of Hadadezer before them.

###### v17
And when it was told to David, he gathered all Israel and crossed the Jordan. And he came to them and was arrayed against them. Then David was arrayed to meet Aram in battle, and they fought with him.

###### v18
And Aram fled before Israel. And David killed from Aram _the men of_ seven thousand chariots and forty thousand foot soldiers, and he put to death Shophach the commander of the army.

###### v19
And when the servants of Hadadezer saw that they were defeated before Israel, they made peace with David and became servants to him. So Aram was no longer willing to help the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons of Ammon"]