---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 15
---

[[1 Chr-14|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-16|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And David built houses for himself in the city of David, and he established a place for the ark of God. And he pitched a tent for it.

###### v2
Then David ordered _that_ none except the Levites should carry the ark of God, for Yahweh had chosen them to carry the ark of Yahweh and to serve him forever.

###### v3
And David gathered all Israel to Jerusalem to bring up the ark of Yahweh to its place that he had established for it.

###### v4
And David gathered the sons of Aaron and the Levites.

###### v5
Of the sons of Kohath: Uriel the chief and one hundred and twenty of his brothers.

###### v6
Of the sons of Merari: Asaiah the chief and two hundred and twenty of his brothers.

###### v7
Of the sons of Gershom: Joel the chief and one hundred and thirty of his brothers.

###### v8
Of the sons of Elizaphan: Shemaiah the chief and two hundred of his brothers.

###### v9
Of the sons of Hebron: Eliel the chief and eighty of his brothers.

###### v10
Of the sons of Uzziel: Amminadab the chief and one hundred and twelve of his brothers.

###### v11
Then David summoned Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and the Levites Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab.

###### v12
And he said to them, "You _are_ the heads of the _families_ ^[Literally "fathers"] for the Levites. Sanctify yourselves and your brothers and bring up the ark of Yahweh, the God of Israel, to _the place_ I have established for it.

###### v13
Because the first time you did not, _and_ Yahweh our God burst out against us, for we did not care for it according to the law."

###### v14
Then the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of Yahweh, the God of Israel.

###### v15
And the sons of the Levites carried the ark of God according to what Moses commanded, according to the word of Yahweh, on their shoulders with the carrying poles upon them.

###### v16
Then David ordered the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their brothers _as_ singers with instruments of song, musical instruments, stringed instruments, and cymbals, _raising their voices for joy_. ^[Literally "causing to hear to the mountains with a sound of rejoicing"]

###### v17
So the Levites appointed Heman son of Joel, and from his brothers, Asaph the son of Berekiah, and from the sons of Merari, their brothers, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;

###### v18
and with them their brothers _of_ the second _rank_, Zechariah the son, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, and the gatekeepers Obed-Edom and Jeiel.

###### v19
Now the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, _were_ to sound bronze cymbals;

###### v20
Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah _were to play_ on harps according to Alamoth;

###### v21
and Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah _were to play_ lyres, directing according to the Sheminith.

###### v22
And Kenaniah, chief of the Levites in singing, _was to be_ an instructor in singing because he understood.

###### v23
And Berekiah and Elkanah _were_ gatekeepers for the ark.

###### v24
And Shebaniah, Jehoshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Elizezer the priests _sounded the trumpets_ ^[Literally "trumpet blowers with trumpets"] before the ark of God. And Obed-Edom and Jehiah _were_ gatekeepers for the ark.

###### v25
And it happened _that_ David and the elders of Israel and the commanders of thousands went to bring up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh from the house of Obed-Edom with joy.

###### v26
And it happened _that_ when God helped the Levites carrying the ark of the covenant of Yahweh, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams.

###### v27
Now David was clothed with a robe of fine linen; so also all the Levites who were carrying the ark, the singers, and Kenaniah the chief of the singing. And David wore a linen ephod.

###### v28
And all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of Yahweh with shouting, with the sound of a shofar, ^[Or "horn, trumpet"] and with trumpets and cymbals, making loud music with musical instruments and stringed instruments.

###### v29
And when the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came into the city of David, then Michal the daughter of Saul looked down from the window and saw the king, David, leaping and dancing. And she despised him in her heart.