---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 25
---

[[1 Chr-24|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-26|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And David and the commanders of the army set apart for the service the sons of Asaph, _of_ Heman, and _of_ Jeduthun, who prophesied with stringed instruments, with harps, and with cymbals. And their inventory of the men of the work _and_ for their duty was:

###### v2
for the sons of Asaph: Zakkur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asarelah, sons of Asaph, under the hand ^[That is, under the direction] of Asaph, who prophesied under the hands ^[That is, under the direction] of the king.

###### v3
Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, ^[One Hebrew manuscript and the LXX add "Shimei" between Jeshaiah and Heshabiah (see verse [[1 Chr-25#v17|17]])] Heshabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands ^[That is, under the direction] of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with the stringed instrument with thanksgiving and praise to Yahweh.

###### v4
Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.

###### v5
All these _were_ sons to Heman, the seer of the king, according to the words of God to raise a horn. ^[That is, to exalt Heman] And God had given to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

###### v6
All these _were_ under the _direction_ ^[Literally "hands"] of their father in the music of the house of Yahweh, with cymbals, harps, and stringed instruments for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman _were_ under the _direction_ ^[Literally "hands"] of the king.

###### v7
And their number, along with their brothers, trained singers, all the skilled people for Yahweh, were two hundred and eighty-eight.

###### v8
And they cast lots _for_ responsibilities _on the principle of small and great alike_, ^[Literally "for like the small, like the great"] teacher with student.

###### v9
And the first lot for Asaph went out to Joseph; the second to Gedaliahu; he and his brothers and his twelve sons.

###### v10
The third, Zakkur, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v11
the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v12
the fifth, Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v13
the sixth, Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v14
the seventh, Jesarelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v15
the eighth, Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v16
the ninth, Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v17
the tenth, Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v18
eleventh, Azarel, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v19
the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v20
to _the_ thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v21
to _the_ fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v22
to _the_ fifteenth, to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v23
to _the_ sixteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v24
to _the_ seventeenth, to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v25
to _the_ eighteenth, to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v26
to _the_ nineteenth, to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v27
to _the_ twentieth, to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v28
to _the_ twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v29
to _the_ twenty-second, to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v30
to _the_ twenty-third, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;

###### v31
to _the_ twenty-fourth, to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.