---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 27
---

[[1 Chr-26|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-28|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And as for the number of the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] the heads of _families_, ^[Literally "fathers"] the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officials who serve the king in all matters of the working groups that came and went, month by month, throughout all the months of the year, each working group: twenty-four thousand.

###### v2
Over the first working group for the first month: Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v3
From the sons of Perez _who was_ the chief of the commanders of the armies for the first month.

###### v4
And over the working groups of the second month: Dodai the Ahohite and his working group, and Mikloth the commander. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v5
The third commander of the army for the third month _was_ Benaiah son of Jehoiada the chief priest. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v6
This _was_ Benaiah _who was_ a mighty warrior of thirty, and over the thirty and his working group _was_ Ammizabad his son.

###### v7
The fourth, for the fourth month, _was_ Asahel the brother of Joab and his son Zebadiah after him. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v8
The fifth, for the fifth month, the commander _was_ Shamhuth the Izrahite. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v9
The sixth, for the sixth month, _was_ Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v10
The seventh, for the seventh month, _was_ Helez the Pelonite, from the sons of Ephraim. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v11
The eighth, for the eighth month, _was_ Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zerahites. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v12
The ninth, for the ninth month, _was_ Abiezer the Anathothite of the Benjamites. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v13
The tenth, for the tenth month, _was_ Maharai the Netophathite of the Zerahites. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v14
The eleventh, for the eleventh month, _was_ Benaiah the Pirathonite from the sons of Ephraim. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v15
The twelfth, for the twelfth month, _was_ Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel. And _he was_ over his working group _of_ twenty-four thousand.

###### v16
And over the tribes of Israel, for the Reubenites: the commander _was_ Eliezer the son of Zikri. For the Simeonites: Shephatiah the son of Maacah.

###### v17
For Levi: Hashabiah the son of Kemuel. For Aaron, Zadok.

###### v18
For Judah: Elihu, from the brothers of David. For Issachar: Omri the son of Michael.

###### v19
For Zebulun: Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah. For Naphtali: Jerimoth the son of Azriel.

###### v20
For the Ephraimites: Hoshea the son of Azaziah. For the half-tribe of Manasseh: Joel the son of Pedaiah.

###### v21
For the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo the son of Zechariah. For Benjamin: Jaasiel son of Abner.

###### v22
For Dan: Azarel the son of Jeroham. These _were_ the commanders of the tribes of Israel.

###### v23
And David did not _take a census of those twenty years old or under_ ^[Literally "take up their count from a son of twenty years and to less"] because Yahweh promised ^[Or "said"] to make Israel more numerous than the stars of heaven.

###### v24
Joab the son of Zeruiah began to count, but he did not finish. But wrath came upon Israel concerning this, and the number was not included in _the chronicles_ ^[Literally "in the numbering of the words of the days"] of King David.

###### v25
And over the treasury rooms of the king _was_ Azmaveth the son of Adiel. And over the treasuries in the country, in the cities, in the unwalled villages, and in the towers _was_ Jonathan the son of Uzziah.

###### v26
And over those who did the work in the field to till the soil _was_ Ezri the son of Kelub.

###### v27
And over the vineyards _was_ Shemei the Ramathite. And over the produce in the vineyards for the storehouses of the wine _was_ Zabdi the Shiphmite.

###### v28
And over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that _were_ in the Shephelah _was_ Baal-Hanan the Gederite. And over the treasury houses of olive oil _was_ Joash.

###### v29
And over the cattle pastured in the Sharon _was_ Shitrai the Sharonite. And over the cattle in the valley _was_ Shaphat the son of Adlai.

###### v30
And over the camels _was_ Obil the Ishmaelite. And over the female donkeys _was_ Jehdeiah the Meronothite. ^[[[1 Chr-27#v31|1 Chronicles 27:31]] begins here in the Hebrew Bible] And over the sheep _was_ Jaziz the Hagrite.

###### v31
All of these _were_ officials of the property of King David.

###### v32
And Jehonathan the uncle of David _was_ an adviser, a man of insight, and he was a scribe. And Jehiel the son of Hachmoni _was_ with the sons of the king.

###### v33
And Ahithophel _was_ an adviser to the king, and Hushai the Arkite _was_ a friend of the king.

###### v34
And after Ahithophel _came_ Jehoiada, the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. And Joab _was_ the commander of the king's army.