---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 21
---

[[1 Chr-20|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-22|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Satan ^[Or "_an_ accuser," or "_an_ adversary"] stood against Israel and urged David to count Israel.

###### v2
So David said to Joab and to the commanders of the nation, "Go, count Israel from Beersheba to Dan and bring a report to me that I might know their number."

###### v3
But Joab said, "May Yahweh add to the people a hundred times what they are! Are they not, O my lord the king, all of them the king's servants? Why does my lord seek this? Why would he bring guilt to Israel?"

###### v4
But the word of the king prevailed over Joab. Then he went about through all Israel and came to Jerusalem.

###### v5
And Joab gave the number of the enrollment of the people to David. And it happened _that_ all Israel _was_ one million one hundred thousand men drawing a sword, and in Judah _were_ four hundred and seventy thousand men drawing a sword.

###### v6
But he did not count Levi and Benjamin among them, for the word of the king was repulsive to Joab.

###### v7
But this word was displeasing in the eyes of God, and he struck Israel.

###### v8
Then David said to God, "I have sinned severely _in_ that I have done this thing. But now, please forgive the sin of your servant, for I have been very foolish."

###### v9
Then Yahweh spoke to Gad the seer of David, saying,

###### v10
"Go, you must speak to David, saying, 'Thus says Yahweh: "Three _choices_ I offer to you. Choose one of them for yourself that I will do to you."'"

###### v11
So Gad came to David and said to him, "Thus says Yahweh: 'Choose for yourself:

###### v12
whether three years of famine or three months of devastation by your enemies while the sword of your enemies overtakes you, or three days of the sword of Yahweh, with disease in the land and the angel of Yahweh destroying throughout all the territory in Israel.' So now, see what word I should return to my sender."

###### v13
Then David said to Gad, "_I am very troubled_. ^[Literally "Great trouble to me"] Let me into the hand of Yahweh, for his compassion is very great, but do not let me fall into the hand of a man."

###### v14
So Yahweh sent a pestilence through Israel, and seventy thousand men from Israel fell.

###### v15
And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it, and as _he was about_ to destroy _it_, Yahweh saw and was grieved on account of the calamity. Then he said to the angel, the destroyer, "_It is_ enough; slacken your hand." And the angel of Yahweh was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.

###### v16
And David lifted his eyes and saw the angel of Yahweh standing between earth and heaven, with his sword drawn in his hand, stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.

###### v17
Then David said to God, "Was it not I _who_ gave a command to count the people? Now I _am_ he who has sinned, and I have certainly done wickedness, but these sheep, what have they done? O Yahweh, my God, please let your hand be against me and against the house of my father, but against your people, _let there be_ no plague."

###### v18
Now the angel of Yahweh had spoken to Gad to say to David that David should go up _and_ erect an altar for Yahweh.

###### v19
So David went up at the word of Gad that he had spoken in the name of Yahweh.

###### v20
Now Ornan was threshing wheat, and Ornan turned and saw the angel, and his four sons with him hid themselves.

###### v21
Then David came to Ornan, and Ornan looked and saw David. And he went out from the threshing floor, and they bowed down to David, faces to the ground.

###### v22
Then David said to Ornan, "Please give me the place, the threshing floor, that I might build an altar on it to Yahweh; at full price please give it to me, that the plague against the people might be stopped."

###### v23
And Ornan said to David, "Take _it_ to yourself; let my lord the king do what _is_ good in his eyes. See, I give the cattle for the burnt offerings and threshing sledges for the wood and wheat for the grain offering--I give _it_ all."

###### v24
But King David said to Ornan, "No, for I will certainly buy _it_ at full value; indeed, I will not take what is yours for Yahweh and offer burnt offerings for nothing."

###### v25
So David gave to Ornan six hundred shekels of gold by weight for the place.

###### v26
Then David built an altar there to Yahweh, and he offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and he called to Yahweh. And he answered him with fire from heaven upon the altar of burnt offering.

###### v27
Then Yahweh commanded the angel, and he returned his sword to its sheath.

###### v28
At that time, when David saw that Yahweh answered him at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he sacrificed there.

###### v29
Now the tabernacle of Yahweh that Moses had made in the desert and the altar of burnt offering _were_ at that time at the high place of Gibeon.

###### v30
But David was not able to go before it to seek God, for he was afraid on account of the sword of the angel of Yahweh.