---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 4
---

[[1 Chr-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal.

###### v2
And Reaiah the son of Shobal fathered Jahath, and Jahath fathered Ahumai and Lahad. These _were_ the clans of the Zorathites.

###### v3
And these _were_ the sons of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash. And the name of their sister _was_ Hazzelelponi,

###### v4
and Penuel _was_ the father of Gedor, and Ezer _was_ the father of Hushah. These _were_ the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem.

###### v5
And Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives: Helah and Naarah.

###### v6
And Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These _were_ the sons of Naarah.

###### v7
The sons of Helah: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.

###### v8
And Koz fathered Anub, Zobebah, and the clans of Aharhel, the son of Harum.

###### v9
And Jabez was more honorable than his brothers. And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, "Because I bore him in pain."

###### v10
And Jabez called upon the God of Israel, saying, "Oh that you would surely bless me and enlarge my border. And may your hand be with me, that you would keep me from evil so that it might not harm me!" And God granted what he asked.

###### v11
Chelub, the brother of Shuhah, fathered Mehir. He _was_ the father of Eshton.

###### v12
And Eshton fathered Beth-Rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of the city of Nahash. These _are_ the men of Recah.

###### v13
The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel: Hathath.

###### v14
And Meonothai fathered Ophrah; and Seraiah fathered Joab, the father of Ge-Harashim, because they _were_ craftsmen.

###### v15
The sons of Caleb, the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam. And the sons of Elah: Kenaz.

###### v16
The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.

###### v17
The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. And she became pregnant with Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa.

###### v18
And his Judahite wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these _were_ the sons of Bithiah daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married.

###### v19
The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, _were_ the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite.

###### v20
The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-Hanan, and Tolon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-Zoheth.

###### v21
The sons of Shelah, the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of linen workers at Beth Ashbea;

###### v22
and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who ruled in Moab and returned to Lehem. (Now the records are ancient).

###### v23
These _were_ the potters and inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah. They lived there with the king in his service.

###### v24
The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul.

###### v25
Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.

###### v26
The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.

###### v27
Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters, but his brothers did not have many children. But all their families did not multiply like the men of Judah.

###### v28
And they lived in Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar Shual,

###### v29
Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad,

###### v30
Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag,

###### v31
Beth-Marcaboth, Hazar-Susim, Beth-Biri, and Shaaraim. These _were_ their cities until David reigned.

###### v32
And their villages _were_ Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Token, and Ashan, five cities

###### v33
and all their villages that surrounding these cities as far as Baal. These _were_ their settlements, and they kept a genealogical record for them.

###### v34
Meshobab, Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah,

###### v35
Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, son of Seraiah, son of Asiel.

###### v36
And Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah,

###### v37
and Ziza the son of Shiphi, son of Allon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah.

###### v38
These _mentioned by name_ ^[Literally "coming in the names"] _were_ leaders in their families, and their fathers' households increased greatly.

###### v39
And they went to the entrance of Gedor, up to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.

###### v40
And they found fertile and good pasture, and the land _was_ very broad, quiet, and at ease, for the former inhabitants there _were_ from Ham.

###### v41
These, mentioned by name, came in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah, and attacked their tents and the Meunites who were found there. And they devoted them to destruction to this day, and they settled among them because _there was_ pasture there for their flocks.

###### v42
And some of them from the Simeonites went to Mount Seir, five hundred men. And Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi, _were_ under their leadership.

###### v43
And they destroyed the remainder of the Amalekites who had escaped, and they have lived there to this day.