---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 13
---

[[1 Chr-12|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-14|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And David consulted with the commanders of thousands and hundreds, with every leader.

###### v2
And David said to all the assembly of Israel, "_If it seems good to you_ ^[Literally "If to you good"] and before Yahweh our God, _let us send word abroad_ ^[Literally "let us spread out, let us send"] to our brothers who remain in all the land of Israel and _to_ the priests and Levites with them in the cities with their pasturelands that they might be gathered to us.

###### v3
Then let us bring around the ark of our God to us, for we did not seek it in the days of Saul."

###### v4
And all the assembly agreed to do so, for the word was pleasing in the eyes of all the people.

###### v5
And David summoned all Israel from Shihor of Egypt up to Lebo-Hamath to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-Jearim.

###### v6
And David and all Israel went up to Baalah, Kiriath-Jearim of Judah, to bring up from there the ark of Yahweh God _who_ is enthroned _between_ the cherubim, which is called the name.

###### v7
And they carried the ark of God upon a new cart from the house of Abinadab, and Uzza and Ahio were driving the cart.

###### v8
Now David and all Israel were celebrating before God with all _their_ strength, and with songs, lyres, harps, tambourines, cymbals, and trumpets.

###### v9
And when they came to the threshing floor of Kidon, Uzza reached out his hand to hold the ark because the cattle had stumbled.

###### v10
And Yahweh _was angry_ ^[Literally "nostrils became hot"] with Uzza, and he struck him down because he reached his hand upon the ark. And he died there before God.

###### v11
And David _was angry_ ^[Literally "it was hot"] because Yahweh had broken out in wrath against Uzza. And that place is called Perez Uzza unto this day.

###### v12
And David feared God on that day, saying, "How can I bring the ark of God _home_ to me?"

###### v13
So David did not move the ark to himself into the city of David but diverted it to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.

###### v14
And the ark of God remained with the household of Obed-Edom in his house three months. And Yahweh blessed the household of Obed-Edom and all that he had.