---
aliases:
  - 1 Chronicles 6
---

[[1 Chr-05|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Chr-07|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
 ^[[[1 Chr-06|1 Chronicles 6:1–81]] in the English Bible is 5:27–6:66 in the Hebrew Bible] The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

###### v2
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.

###### v3
The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

###### v4
Eleazar fathered Phinehas; Phinehas fathered Abishua;

###### v5
Abishua fathered Bukki; Bukki fathered Uzzi;

###### v6
Uzzi fathered Zerahiah; Zerahiah fathered Meraioth;

###### v7
Meraioth fathered Amariah; Amariah fathered Ahitub;

###### v8
Ahitub fathered Zadok; Zadok fathered Ahimaaz;

###### v9
Ahimaaz fathered Azariah; Azariah fathered Johanan;

###### v10
and Johanan fathered Azariah. _It was_ he who served as priest in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem.

###### v11
And Azariah fathered Amariah; Amariah fathered Ahitub;

###### v12
Ahitub fathered Zadok; Zadok fathered Shallum;

###### v13
Shallum fathered Hilkiah; Hilkiah fathered Azariah;

###### v14
Azariah fathered Seraiah; Seraiah fathered Jehozadak.

###### v15
And Jehozadak went into exile _when_ Yahweh _sent_ Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.

###### v16
The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.

###### v17
Now these _are_ the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.

###### v18
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.

###### v19
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. Now these _are_ the families of the Levites according to their ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v20
Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,

###### v21
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.

###### v22
The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,

###### v23
Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,

###### v24
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.

###### v25
The sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth,

###### v26
Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son,

###### v27
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.

###### v28
The sons of Samuel: _Joel_ ^["Joel" is from 1 Samuel 8:2, the parallel to this genealogy. The name has dropped out of the text here] his firstborn and Abijah the second.

###### v29
The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,

###### v30
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son.

###### v31
Now these _are the men_ whom David appointed for _control of singing_ ^[Literally "to the hands of song"] in the house of Yahweh where the ark rested.

###### v32
They were ministering with song before the tabernacle of the tent of assembly ^[Or "meeting"] until Solomon built the temple of Yahweh in Jerusalem. And they stood according to their order with respect to their duty.

###### v33
Now these _are_ those who served and their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman the singer, the son of Joel, son of Samuel,

###### v34
son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,

###### v35
son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai,

###### v36
son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,

###### v37
son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah,

###### v38
son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel;

###### v39
and his brother Asaph, who stood on his right _namely_, Asaph the son of Berechiah, son of Shimea,

###### v40
son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malkijah,

###### v41
son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah,

###### v42
son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei,

###### v43
son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.

###### v44
On the left _were_ their brothers, the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,

###### v45
son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah,

###### v46
son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer,

###### v47
son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi.

###### v48
And their brothers the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.

###### v49
But Aaron and his sons made offerings on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense for all the work of the most holy place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.

###### v50
Now these _are_ the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,

###### v51
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,

###### v52
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,

###### v53
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.

###### v54
And these _are_ their dwellings according to their settlements within their borders: to the sons of Aaron of the clans of Kohathites, for the _first_ lot _was_ theirs,

###### v55
and they gave to them Hebron in the land of Judah and its surrounding pasturelands,

###### v56
but the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

###### v57
To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah with its pasturelands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasturelands,

###### v58
Hilen with its pasturelands, Debir with its pasturelands,

###### v59
Ashan with its pasturelands, and Beth-Shemesh with its pasturelands.

###### v60
And from the tribe of Benjamin, Geba with its pasturelands, Alemeth with its pasturelands, and Anathoth with its pasturelands. All their cities _were_ thirteen cities throughout their clans.

###### v61
To the Kohathites who remained from the family of the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh, _were given_ by lot ten cities.

###### v62
To the Gershomites according to their clans thirteen cities _were allotted_ out of the tribe of Issachar, out of the tribe of Asher, out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan.

###### v63
To the Merarites twelve cities _were_ allotted according to their clans out of the tribe of Reuben, out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun.

###### v64
So the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] gave the Levites the cities with their pasturelands.

###### v65
And they gave by lot out of the tribe of Judah, out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin these cities that are mentioned by name.

###### v66
And of the clans of the sons of Kohath were cities of their territory out of the tribe of Ephraim.

###### v67
And they gave them the cities of refuge: Shechem with its pasturelands in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer with its pasturelands,

###### v68
Jokmeam with its pasturelands, Beth-Horon with its pasturelands,

###### v69
Aijalon with its pasturelands, and Gath-Rimmon with its pasturelands.

###### v70
And out of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Aner with its pasturelands, and Bileam with its pasturelands for the remaining the clans of the Kohathites.

###### v71
To the Gershomites _were given_ out of the clan of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan with its pasturelands and Ashtaroth with its pasturelands.

###### v72
And out of the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its pasturelands, Daberath with its pasturelands,

###### v73
Ramoth with its pasturelands, and Anem with its pasturelands.

###### v74
And out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasturelands, Abdon with its pasturelands,

###### v75
Hukok with its pasturelands, and Rehob with its pasturelands.

###### v76
And out of the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasturelands, Hammon with its pasturelands, and Kiriathaim with its pasturelands.

###### v77
To the remainder of the Merarites _were allotted_ out of the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono with its pasturelands, Tabor with its pasturelands.

###### v78
And beyond the Jordan _at_ Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness with its pasturelands, Jahzah with its pasturelands,

###### v79
Kedemoth with its pasturelands, and Mephaath with its pasturelands.

###### v80
And out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasturelands, Mahanaim with its pasturelands,

###### v81
Heshbon with its pasturelands, and Jazer with its pasturelands.