---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 18
---

[[2 Sam-17|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-19|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then David mustered the people who _were_ with him, and he appointed over them commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds.

###### v2
David sent forth a third of the troops _under the command of Joab_, ^[Literally "in the hand of Joab"] and a third _under the command of Abishai_, ^[Literally "in the hand of Abishai"] the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and the remaining third _under the command of Ittai_ ^[Literally "in the hand of Ittai"] the Gittite. And the king said to the troops, "I, even I, _will certainly go out_ ^[Literally "going out I will go out"] with you."

###### v3
Then the troops said, "You will not go out, for _if we must flee_, ^[Literally "fleeing we must flee"] then _they will not care about us_; ^[Literally "they will not set heart toward us"] even if half of us die, _they will not care about us_, ^[Literally "they will not set heart toward us"] but now, you _are_ like ten thousand of us. And so then, _it is_ better for us that you be in the city to help."

###### v4
The king said to them, "I will do what seems good in your eyes." So the king stood at the side of the gate _while_ all of the troops went out by hundreds and by thousands.

###### v5
The king ordered Joab, Abishai, and Ittai, "With respect to the young man Absalom, _deal_ gently for me." And all the troops heard when the king ordered all of the commanders concerning the matter of Absalom.

###### v6
The army went out to the field to meet Israel, and the battle was _fought_ in the forest of Ephraim.

###### v7
The army of Israel _was_ defeated there before the servants of David, and the defeat there was great on that day: twenty thousand.

###### v8
The battle there was spreading over the surface of all the land, and _the forest devoured more among the army than_ ^[Literally "the forest made numerous to eat among the army more than"] the sword _did_ on that day.

###### v9
Absalom was found in the presence of the servants of David _as he was_ riding on the mule. The mule went under the thicket of the great oak tree, and his head _was_ caught in the tree. He _was_ left hanging between heaven and earth, and the mule which _was_ under him went on.

###### v10
When a certain man saw _it_, he told Joab, and he said, "Look, I saw Absalom hanging in the oak tree!"

###### v11
Then Joab said to the man who _was_ telling him, "Look, _if_ you saw, why did you not strike him down to the ground there? _I would have gladly given you_ ^[Literally "And upon me to give to you"] ten pieces of silver and a leather belt."

###### v12
The man said to Joab, "_Even if I felt the weight_ ^[Literally "I _am_ not weighing out on my palms"] of a thousand pieces of silver in my palms, I would not have sent my hand against the son of the king, for in our ears the king commanded you and Abishai and Ittai, 'Whoever you may be, protect the young man Absalom.'

###### v13
If I had dealt treacherously against his life, and _there is_ not any matter hidden from the king, _you would have presented yourself aloof_." ^[Literally "you would have presented yourself from before"]

###### v14
Joab said, "No longer will I wait in your presence." Then he took three spears in his hand and thrust them into the heart of Absalom while he _was_ still alive in the oak tree.

###### v15
Then ten of the young men who bore the weapons of Joab surrounded _him_ and struck and killed Absalom.

###### v16
Then Joab blew on the trumpet and the troops returned from pursuing after Israel, for Joab kept back the troops.

###### v17
They took Absalom and they threw him into the large pit in the forest and raised a very great heap of stones over him. Then all of Israel fled, each to his tent.

###### v18
(Now Absalom had taken and set up for himself in his lifetime a stone pillar that _is_ in the valley of the king, because he said, "I have no son in order to remember my name," and he called the stone pillar by his name. It _is_ called the monument of Absalom until this day).

###### v19
Now Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, "Please let me run and bring the good news to the king that Yahweh has vindicated him from the hand of his enemies."

###### v20
Joab said to him, "You _will_ not _be_ a man _bringing_ ^[Literally "for upon"] good news this day! You may bring good news on another day, but today you will not be bringing good news because the king's son is dead."

###### v21
Then Joab said to the Cushite, "Go, tell the king what you have seen"; then the Cushite bowed down to Joab and ran _off_.

###### v22
Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok again said to Joab, "_Come what may_, ^[Literally "And let it happen what"] please let me also run after the Cushite." Joab asked, "Why _are_ you wanting to run, my son, when for you there is no _messenger's reward_?" ^[Literally "and for you there is no good news finding"]

###### v23
"_Come what may_, ^[Literally "And let it happen what"] I want to run." He said to him, "Run," so Ahimaaz ran on the road on the plain, and he passed the Cushite.

###### v24
Now David _was_ sitting between the two gates, and the sentinel went up to the roof of the gate by the wall and he lifted up his eyes and watched, and look, a man _was_ running by himself.

###### v25
The sentry called and told the king, and the king said, "If he _is_ alone, good news is in his mouth." _He kept coming closer_. ^[Literally "And he came, coming and near"]

###### v26
Then the sentinel saw another man running, so the sentinel called to the gatekeeper and said, "Look, a man running alone." The king said, "This one also _is_ bringing good news."

###### v27
The sentinel said, "I _am_ seeing _that_ the running of the first _is_ like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zakok." The king said, "He _is_ a good man; he will come, for good news."

###### v28
Then Ahimaaz called and said to the king, "Peace." He bowed down to the king with his face to the ground, and he said, "May Yahweh your God be blessed, who has delivered the men who raised their hand against my lord the king."

###### v29
The king said, "_Is_ it peace for the young man Absalom?" Ahimaaz said, "I saw the great commotion when Joab the servant of the king sent your servant, but I do not know what _it was all about_."

###### v30
Then the king said, "Turn aside, take your place here," so he turned aside and waited.

###### v31
Suddenly the Cushite arrived and said, "May my lord the king receive the good news, for Yahweh has vindicated you today from the power of all who stood up against you."

###### v32
The king said to the Cushite, "_Is_ it peace for the young man Absalom?" Then the Cushite answered, "May the enemies of my lord the king and all who rise up against you _to harm you_ ^[Literally "for evil"] be like the young man!"

###### v33
 ^[2 Samuel 18:33–19:43 in the English Bible is 19:1–44 in the Hebrew Bible] The king was upset, and he went up to the upper room of the gate and wept. He said as he went, "My son, Absalom, my son, my son, Absalom. _If only_ ^[Literally "Who would grant my dying in place of you"] I had died instead of you, Absalom, my son, my son."