---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 7
---

[[2 Sam-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened that the king settled in his house. (Now Yahweh had given rest to him from all his enemies all around.)

###### v2
And the king said to Nathan the prophet, "Look, please, I _am_ living in a house of cedar, but the ark of God _is_ staying in the middle of the tent."

###### v3
Nathan said to the king, "Go and do all that _is_ in your heart, for Yahweh _is_ with you."

###### v4
But it happened _that night_, ^[Literally "in the night the that"] the word of Yahweh came ^[Hebrew "was"] to Nathan, saying,

###### v5
"Go and tell my servant David, 'Thus says Yahweh: "_Are_ you the one to build for me a house for my dwelling?

###### v6
For I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought up the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] from Egypt until this day; _rather,_ I _was_ going about in a tent and in a tabernacle.

###### v7
In all of my going about among all the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] did I speak a word with one of the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, 'Why did you not build me a cedar house?'"'

###### v8
So then, thus you shall say to my servant David, 'Thus says Yahweh of hosts, "I took you from the pasture _from following_ ^[Literally "from behind"] the sheep to be a leader over my people, over Israel,

###### v9
and I have been with you _everywhere you went_. ^[Literally "in all that you went"] I have cut off all of your enemies from in front of you, and I will make a great name for you, as the name of the great _ones_ who _are_ on the earth.

###### v10
I will make a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them ^[Hebrew "him"] so that they ^[Hebrew "he"] can dwell _in their own place_. ^[Literally "under him"] They will not tremble _any_ longer, and the children of wickedness will not afflict them again, as in the former days.

###### v11
_In the manner that_ ^[Literally "And as far as" or "And from the day"] I appointed judges over my people Israel, I will give you rest from all your enemies. And Yahweh declares to you that Yahweh will build a house for you.

###### v12
When your days _are_ full and you lie down with your ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] I will raise up your offspring after you who will go out from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.

###### v13
He will build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.

###### v14
I will be a father to him, and he will be a son for me, whom I will punish when he does wrong, with a rod of men and with blows of the _human beings_. ^[Literally "children of men"]

###### v15
But my loyal love shall not depart from him as I took _it_ from Saul, whom I removed from before you.

###### v16
Your house and your kingdom shall endure forever before you; your throne shall be established forever."'"

###### v17
According to all these words and according to all this vision, this Nathan spoke to David.

###### v18
Then King David went and sat before Yahweh and said, "Who _am_ I, my lord Yahweh, and what _is_ my house that you have brought me up to _this place_? ^[Literally "here"]

###### v19
Still, this _was_ _insignificant_ ^[Literally "small"] in your eyes, my lord Yahweh, and also you have spoken about the house of your servant from afar, and this _may be_ the teaching of humans, my lord Yahweh.

###### v20
_What more can David say to you_? ^[Literally "And what can David still add to say"] You know your servant, my lord Yahweh.

###### v21
Because of your word and according to your heart, you have done all of this great thing, _in order_ to let your servant know.

###### v22
Therefore you _are_ great, my lord Yahweh, for there is no one like you, and there _is_ no god except you, in all that we have heard with our ears.

###### v23
Who _is_ like your people, like Israel? _Israel is_ the one nation on earth whose God _led them_, ^[Literally "went"; LXX reads "led"] _in order_ to redeem a people for himself, and to make a name for himself, and to do for you ^[David switches pronouns from the third person to the second person] the great and awesome things for your land in the presence of your people whom he redeemed for himself from Egypt, _from the_ nations and their gods.

###### v24
You have established your people Israel for yourself as a people forever, and you, O Yahweh, have become their God.

###### v25
So then, Yahweh God, the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house, confirm it forever, and do just as you have promised.

###### v26
Your name shall be great forever, _and they will say_, ^[Literally "saying"] 'Yahweh of hosts _is_ God over Israel'; and the house of your servant David shall be established before you.

###### v27
For you, O Yahweh of hosts, _are_ God of Israel! You have revealed to the ear of your servant, 'I will build a house for you'; therefore your servant _has found courage_ ^[Literally "has found his heart"] to pray this prayer to you.

###### v28
Now, my Lord Yahweh, you alone _are_ God, and your words _are_ ^[Hebrew "will be"] true. You have promised this good to your servant.

###### v29
So then, be content and bless the house of your servant to be forever in your presence, for you, my Lord Yahweh, have spoken, and because of your blessing, may the house of your servant be blessed forever."