---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 20
---

[[2 Sam-19|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-21|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now a man of wickedness was found there whose name _was_ Sheba the son of Bichri, a Benjaminite. He blew the horn and said, "There is no share for us in David, and there _is_ no inheritance for us in the son of Jesse; each to his tents, O Israel!"

###### v2
Then all the men of Israel went up from _following_ after David, _following instead_ after Sheba the son of Bicri, but the men of Judah stuck to their king from the Jordan up to Jerusalem.

###### v3
David went up to his house in Jerusalem, then the king took the ten concubines whom he had left to look after the house, and he put them _under confinement_. ^[Literally "_a_ house of guard"] However, he provided for them, but _he did not sleep with them_. ^[Literally "he did not come into them"] So they were confined until the day of their death, like a lifetime of widowhood.

###### v4
Then the king said to Amasa, "Summon for me the men of Judah _within_ three days, _and be here yourself_." ^[Literally "and you stand here"]

###### v5
So Amasa went to summon Judah, but he tarried more than the appointed time which he had set for him.

###### v6
Then David said to Abishai, "Now Sheba the son of Bicri will do us more harm than Absalom. You take the servants of your lord and pursue after him, lest he find fortified cities for himself and escape from us."

###### v7
Then the men of Joab, the Kerethites and the Pelethites, and all the mighty warriors went out after him; they went out from Jerusalem to pursue after Sheba the son of Bicri.

###### v8
They _were_ near the big rock that _is_ in Gibeon, and Amasa came before them. Joab _was dressed in his military clothing_, ^[Literally "_was_ dressed his garment his clothing"] _with_ a utility belt on him and a sword strapped to his waist in its scabbard. Now he went out, and it fell out.

###### v9
Then Joab said to Amasa, "Is it peace, O you my brother?" Then the right hand of Joab took hold of the beard of Amasa _as if_ to kiss him.

###### v10
Now Amasa was not on his guard against the sword that _was_ in Joab's hand, and he struck him with it into the stomach, and his entrails poured out to the ground. He did not strike him again, and he died. Then Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bicri.

###### v11
A young man stood over him, from the young men of Joab, and he said, "Whoever takes delight in Joab and whoever _is_ for David, _follow_ after Joab."

###### v12
Now Amasa _was_ wallowing in the blood in the middle of the highway; when the man saw that all the people stood _there_, he turned Amasa over from the highway into the field, and he threw a garment over him because he had seen that all who had come by him had stopped.

###### v13
After he was removed from the highway, all the men passed by after Joab to pursue after Sheba the son of Bicri.

###### v14
(He ^[i.e., "Sheba"] had passed through all the tribes of Israel to Abel and Beth Maacah; now all of the Berites had been treated badly, so they also followed after him.)

###### v15
And they came and besieged him in Abel Beth Maacah. They threw up a siege ramp against the city, and they stood against the ramparts. And all the army who _were_ with Joab _were_ battering to cause the wall to fall.

###### v16
Then a wise woman from the city called out, "Listen, listen! Please speak to Joab _to_ come near here so that I may speak to you."

###### v17
Then he came near to her, and the woman asked, "_Are_ you Joab?" And he said, "I _am_." Then she said to him, "Listen to the words of your servant." He said, "I _am_ listening."

###### v18
Then she said, "In former times, _they would always say_, ^[Literally "speaking they would speak"] 'By all means, let them inquire in Abel,' and so they settled things.

###### v19
I _am_ one of the faithful representatives of Israel. You _are_ seeking to destroy a city and a mother in Israel. Why do you want to swallow the inheritance of Yahweh?"

###### v20
Then Joab answered and said, "Far be it, far be it from me that I should swallow or I should destroy.

###### v21
That is not the matter. But a man from the mountains of Ephraim, whose name _is_ Sheba the son Bicri, has lifted up his hand against the king, against David. Give only him to us, and I will depart from the city." The woman said to Joab, "Look, his head _is_ being thrown down to you over the wall."

###### v22
The woman went to all of the people with her wise plan, so they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bicri and threw _it_ to Joab. Then he blew the horn and dispersed from the city, each to his tent. Then Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king.

###### v23
Now Joab _was_ over all the army of Israel and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada _was_ over the Carites and over the Pelethites.

###### v24
Adoram _was_ over the forced labor, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud _was_ the recorder.

###### v25
Shiya _was_ secretary, and Zadok and Abiathar _were_ priests.

###### v26
Also Ira the Jairite _was_ priest for David.