---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 23
---

[[2 Sam-22|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-24|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
These _are_ the last words of David, the declaration of David the son of Jesse, and the declaration of the man exalted _by_ the Most High, the anointed one of the God of Jacob and the darling of the songs of Israel.

###### v2
"The spirit of Yahweh speaks through me, and his word _is_ upon my tongue.

###### v3
The God of Israel said to me, the rock of Israel has spoken; 'He who rules over mankind rules righteously, in the fear of God.

###### v4
Like the light of _the_ morning when the sun rises, shining with no clouds, _bringing_ vegetation from the earth apart from rain.' ^[In other words, even men who rule rightly pass like the dew of the morning]

###### v5
Yet not so _is_ my house with God, for he made an everlasting covenant for me, arranging everything. He has secured all my deliverance, and all my desire he will cause to happen.

###### v6
But evil persons _are_ like thorns cast aside; all of them, because they cannot be picked up in the hand.

###### v7
And if a man wants to touch them, he must use an iron instrument or the shaft of a spear; then they _are_ consumed entirely with fire on the spot."

###### v8
These _are_ the names of the mighty warriors who _were_ David's: Josheb-Basshebeth a Tahkemonite _was_ chief of three officers; first Adino, whose spear _was_ against eight hundred slain on one occurrence.

###### v9
Next to him Eleazar, the son of Dodo the son of an Ahohite, _was_ among the three mighty warriors with David when they defied the Philistines and they gathered there for the battle and the men of Israel withdrew.

###### v10
He stood up and struck down the Philistines until his hand grew tired and his hand clung to the sword, and Yahweh brought about a great victory on that day. Then the army returned back to him only for stripping _the dead_.

###### v11
Next to him _was_ Shamma, the son of Agee the Hararite. When _the_ Philistines assembled at Lehi, a plot of the field was there filled with lentils, and the army fled there from the presence of _the_ Philistines.

###### v12
But he took a stand in the middle of the plot of land and defended it. He killed _the_ Philistines, and Yahweh brought about a great victory.

###### v13
Then three ^[So _Qere_; _Kethib_ reads "thirty"] of the thirty leaders went down and came to David _at the time of the harvest_ ^[Literally "to the harvest"] to the cave of Adullam, while a group of _the_ Philistines _were_ camping in the valley of _the_ Rephaim.

###### v14
Now at that time, David _was_ in the stronghold, and a garrison of _the_ Philistines _was_ in Bethlehem at that _same_ time.

###### v15
David _said longingly_, ^[Literally "desired and said"] "_Oh that someone would bring me a drink_ ^[Literally "Who will let me drink …?"] of water from the well of Bethlehem that _is_ at the gate."

###### v16
So three of the mighty warriors broke into the camp of _the_ Philistines, and they drew water from the well of Bethlehem that _was_ at the gate, and they carried _it_ and brought _it_ to David. But he _was_ not willing to drink it, but poured it out to Yahweh.

###### v17
He said, "Far be it from me before Yahweh that I should do this. _Is this not_ the blood of the men who went at the risk of their lives?" So he _was_ not willing to drink it. These things the three mighty warriors did.

###### v18
Now Abishai the brother of Joab the son of Zeruiah _was_ himself the leader of the thirty. He _was_ wielding his spear against three hundred slain and _gained a name_ ^[Literally "and to him a name"] among the thirty.

###### v19
Among the thirty, is it not that he _was_ honored and became a commander for them? But he did not come up to the three.

###### v20
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of Ish-Hai, _was_ a great _man_ of deeds from Kabzeel. He struck down two sons of Ariel of Moab, and he went down and killed a lion in the middle of a pit on a snowy day.

###### v21
He also killed a good-looking Egyptian man, in whose hand _was_ a spear. He went down against him with the staff and snatched the spear from the hand of the Egyptian and killed him with his spear.

###### v22
These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did and gained a name for himself among the three mighty warriors.

###### v23
He _was_ honored more than the thirty, but he did not come up to the three. David appointed him in charge of his bodyguard.

###### v24
Among the thirty _were_ Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

###### v25
Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,

###### v26
Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,

###### v27
Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,

###### v28
Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,

###### v29
Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai from Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin,

###### v30
Benaiah _the_ Pirathonite, Hiddai from the wadis of Gaash,

###### v31
Abi-Albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,

###### v32
Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan

###### v33
_the son_ of Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite,

###### v34
Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai the son of the Maacathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,

###### v35
Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,

###### v36
Igal the son of Nathan from Zobah, Bani the Gadite,

###### v37
Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, the carriers of the weapons of Joab the son of Zeruiah,

###### v38
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,

###### v39
Uriah the Hittite; in all, thirty-seven.