---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 19
---

[[2 Sam-18|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-20|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
And it was told to Joab that the king _was_ weeping and he mourned over Absalom,

###### v2
so the victory turned to mourning on that day for all the army, because they had heard that day, "The king is grieving over his son."

###### v3
The army _came secretly_ ^[Literally "stole secretly to come"] into the city on that day because the army was disgraced when they fled in the battle,

###### v4
and because the king had covered his face and cried with a loud voice, "My son, Absalom, Absalom, my son, my son."

###### v5
Then Joab came to the king's house and said, "Today you have humiliated the faces of all of your servants who have saved your life this day, and the life of your sons and your daughters, the life of your wives, and the life of your concubines,

###### v6
by loving those who hate you and hating those who love you. Indeed, you have made clear this day that you have no _regard for your_ commanders or officers, for I have realized today that _were_ Absalom alive, and all of us were dead, then _that would_ have been right in your eyes!

###### v7
So then, get up and go out and _speak kindly to your servants_, ^[Literally "speak to the heart of your servants"] for I swear by Yahweh, if you do not go out, no man will lodge this night with you, and this disaster _will be_ greater for you than any disaster that has come upon you from your childhood until now!"

###### v8
So the king got up and he sat in the gate, and they told all the army, "Look, the king _is_ sitting in the gate." Then all the army came before the king; _whereas_ all of Israel had fled, each to his tent.

###### v9
Then it happened that all the people _were_ disputing among all the tribes of Israel, saying, "The king delivered us from the hand of our enemies, and he saved us from the hand of _the_ Philistines, but now he has fled from the land because of Absalom.

###### v10
Now Absalom whom we anointed _as king_ over us has died in the battle; so then, why _are_ you taking no action to restore the king?"

###### v11
Then King David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, "Speak to the elders of Judah: 'Why _are_ you last to bring back the king to his house? The talk of all Israel has come to the king in his house.

###### v12
My brothers, you _are_ my bones and you _are_ my flesh. Why should you be the last to bring back the king?'

###### v13
To Amasa you shall say: '_Are_ you not my bones and my flesh? _May God punish me_ ^[Literally "Thus may God do to me and thus may he add"] if you _are_ not the commander of my army before me forever, in place of Joab.'"

###### v14
So he turned the heart of all the men of Judah as one man, and they sent _word_ to the king, "Return, you and all your servants."

###### v15
Then the king returned and he came to the Jordan; Judah had come to Gilgal to come to meet the king, to bring the king over the Jordan.

###### v16
Then Shimei the son of Gera, the son of the Benjaminite, who _was_ from Bahurim quickly came down with the men of Judah to meet King David,

###### v17
and a thousand men _were_ with him from Benjamin. Too, Ziba the servant of the household of Saul and fifteen of his sons and twenty of his servants _were_ with him, and they rushed to the Jordan before the king.

###### v18
_The crossing took place_ ^[Literally "And the ford crossed"] to bring the household of the king over and to do good in his eyes. Then Shimei the son of Gera fell before the king when he crossed over the Jordan,

###### v19
and he said to the king, "May not my lord hold me guilty, and may you not remember how your servant did wrong on the day that my lord the king went out from Jerusalem, by taking it to heart!

###### v20
For your servant knows that I have sinned; look, I have come this day _as the first_ of all the house of Joseph to come down to meet my lord the king."

###### v21
Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah responded and said, "Because of this, should not Shimei be put to death, for he cursed the anointed one of Yahweh?"

###### v22
Then David said, "What _is_ it to me or to you, sons of Zeruiah, that you should be an adversary today? _Should_ anyone be put to death in Israel? Do I not know today that I _am_ king over Israel?"

###### v23
Then the king said to Shimei, "You shall not die," and _so_ the king swore to him.

###### v24
Now, Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king; he had not taken care of his feet nor trimmed his moustache nor washed his clothes from the day the king left until the day he came back in peace.

###### v25
It happened that when he came to Jerusalem to meet the king, the king said to him, "Why did you not come with me, Mephibosheth?"

###### v26
Then he said, "My lord the king, my servant deceived me, for your servant had said, 'Let me saddle the donkey that I may ride on her and go with the king,' for your servant _is_ lame.

###### v27
But he slandered against your servant to my lord the king. My lord the king _is_ like the angel of God; _do as you see fit._." ^[Literally "do the good in your eyes"]

###### v28
For there _was no one_ in all the house of my father _who were not doomed to death_ ^[Literally "except men of death"] before my lord the king, but you set your servant among those who eat at your table. Do I have any righteousness any longer except to cry out to the king?"

###### v29
Then the king said to him, "Why should you speak any more _about_ the matter? I have decided: you and Ziba shall divide the land."

###### v30
Then Mephibosheth said to the king, "Let him take the whole _thing_, since my lord the king has come _safely_ ^[Literally "in peace"] to his house."

###### v31
Then Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim and crossed with the king over the Jordan to escort him through the Jordan.

###### v32
Now Barzillai _was_ very old, _eighty years old_. ^[Literally "a son of eighty years"] Now he had provided the king _with food_ while he _was_ staying at Mahanaim, for he _was_ a very wealthy man.

###### v33
The king said to Barzillai, "You cross over with me, and I will provide for you _to dwell_ with me in Jerusalem."

###### v34
Then Barzillai said to the king, "What _are_ the days of the years of my life, that I should go with the king to Jerusalem?

###### v35
I _am_ eighty years old today. Can I discern between good and bad? Or can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Or can I still hear the voice of singing men and women? Why should your servant be a burden any longer to my lord the king?

###### v36
Your servant shall go over the Jordan with the king a little way, but why should the king recompense me with this reward?

###### v37
Please let your servant return, and let me die in my city in the tomb of my father and my mother. Here _is_ your servant Kimham; let him cross over with my lord the king, and do for him that which _is_ good in your eyes."

###### v38
The king said, "Let Kimham go over with me, and I will do for him the good in your eyes, and all that you desire of me I will do for you."

###### v39
Then all the people crossed over the Jordan, and the king crossed and kissed Barzillai and blessed him; then he returned to his place.

###### v40
The king went over to Gilgal, and Kimham went over with him. All the people of Judah went over with the king, and half of the people of Israel too.

###### v41
Suddenly, all the men of Israel _were_ coming to the king. They said to the king, "Why have our brothers the men of Judah stolen away and brought the king and his household over the Jordan, with all the men of David?"

###### v42
Then all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, "Because the king _is_ my close relative! Why _are_ you this angry over this matter? _Have we by any means eaten _anything_ from the king? Did we take by any means anything that was not ours_?" ^[Literally "By any means did we eat from the king or by any means was it dragged away for us?"]

###### v43
Then the people of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, "I have _ten times as much_ ^[Literally "ten hands"] in the king, moreover in David I have more than you. Why did you treat me with contempt _by not giving me first chance_ ^[Literally "and my word _was_ not the first"] to bring back my king?" But the words of the men of Judah _were_ fiercer than the word of the men of Israel.