---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 16
---

[[2 Sam-15|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-17|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now David passed a little from beyond the summit, and suddenly Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth _was_ there to meet him _with_ a pair of saddled donkeys; on them _were_ two hundred loaves of bread and a hundred raisin cakes, _with_ a hundred summer fruits and a skin of wine.

###### v2
The king said to Ziba, "_What do you want to accomplish by bringing these_?" ^[Literally "What are these to you?"] And Ziba said, "The donkeys _are_ for the king's household to ride _on_; the bread and the summer fruit _are_ for the young men to eat, and the wine _is_ for the faint in the wilderness to drink.

###### v3
Then the king said, "Where _is_ the son of your lord?" And Ziba said to the king, "He _is_ living in Jerusalem for he said, 'Today the house of Israel shall return the kingdom of my father to me.'"

###### v4
The king said to Ziba, "Look, all that _was_ Mephibosheth's is yours." Ziba said, "I hereby do obeisance; may I find favor in your eyes, my lord the king."

###### v5
King David came up to Bahurim and suddenly a man from there _was_ coming out from the family of the house of Saul, and his name _was_ Shimei the son of Gera. _He was cursing as he came out_. ^[Literally "_He was_ coming out, coming out and cursing"]

###### v6
And he threw stones at David and at all the servants of King David and at all the people and at all the mighty warriors on his right and on his left.

###### v7
Shimei said while cursing him, "Go out, go out, _you_ _man of bloodshed_, ^[Literally "man of bloods"] _you_ _man of wickedness_. ^[Literally "and man of the wickedness"]

###### v8
Yahweh has returned on you all the blood of the household of Saul _whom you have supplanted as king_, ^[Literally "who you have reigned in place of him"] and Yahweh has given the kingship into the hand of Absalom your son. Look, you _are_ in disaster for you _are_ a man of blood."

###### v9
Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, "Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Please let me go over and take off his head."

###### v10
The king said, "_What do we have in common_, ^[Literally "What _is_ for me and what _is_ for you"] sons of Zeruiah? If ^[Hebrew "Because"] he curses because Yahweh has said to him 'Curse David,' who can say, "Why have you done this?"

###### v11
David said to Abishai and to all his servants, "Look, my son who came out of my loins ^[Hebrew "intestines"] _is_ seeking my life. Now _as far as_ ^[Literally "and even that now"] _this_ Benjaminite, leave him alone and let him curse, for Yahweh has spoken to him.

###### v12
Perhaps Yahweh will look _in my eye_ ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere)_; _Kethib_ has "at my guilt"] and repay good for me in place of his curse this day.

###### v13
Then David and his men went on the road, with Shimei going on the side of the hill beside him, _cursing as he went_. ^[Literally "going and cursing"] He threw stones beside him and threw ^[Hebrew "flung"] dust in the air.

###### v14
When the king and all of the people who were with him arrived, he was weary, so he recovered there.

###### v15
Now Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, had come to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel _was_ with him.

###### v16
When Hushai the Arkite the friend of David came to Absalom, Hushai said to Absalom, "_Long_ live the king, _long_ live the king!"

###### v17
Absalom said to Hushai, "This _is_ your loyal love with your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?"

###### v18
Then Hushai said to Absalom, "No, rather, whom Yahweh and this people and all the men of Israel have chosen, to him ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere_); _Kethib_ has "no"] I will be, and with him I will remain.

###### v19
_Furthermore_, ^[Literally "And the second _thing_"] for whom have I served? _Is_ it not in the presence of his son that I have served before your father? _So shall I serve you_!" ^[Literally "So shall I be in your presence"]

###### v20
Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, "Give your advice. What shall we do?"

###### v21
And Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Go to the concubines of your father whom he left behind to watch over the house, then all of Israel will hear that you made yourself odious to your father, and _all of your followers will be motivated_!" ^[Literally "the hands of all who _are_ with you will be strengthened"]

###### v22
Then they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof, and he went _in_ to the concubines of his father before the eyes of all Israel.

###### v23
The counsel that Ahithophel gave in those days _was_ regarded as when a man ^[_Qere_ reads "a man inquired"; _Kethib_ omits "a man"] inquired of the word of God, so all the counsel of Ahithophel _was esteemed_ both by David and by Absalom.