---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 1
---

[[2 Sam-02|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_After_ ^[Literally "And it happened after"] the death of Saul, David returned from defeating the Amalekites and he stayed at Ziklag two days.

###### v2
On the third day, a man came from the camp from _being with_ Saul, with his clothes torn and with dirt on his head. _When he came_ ^[Literally "And it happened at his coming"] to David, he fell to the ground and bowed down.

###### v3
David said to him, "Where did you come from?" He said to him, "I have escaped from the camp of Israel."

###### v4
Then David said to him, "_How did things go_? ^[Literally "What _was_ the thing"] Please tell me." He answered, "_When_ ^[Literally "That"] the army fled from the battle, and many of the people fell; also, Saul and Jonathan his son died."

###### v5
Then David asked the young man who _was_ reporting to him, "How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan died?"

###### v6
The young man who _was_ reporting to him said, "I merely happened to be on Mount Gilboa. Here Saul _was_ leaning on his spear, and look, the chariots and the horsemen _were_ getting close to him.

###### v7
When he turned around and saw me, he called to me, and I said, 'Here I _am_.'

###### v8
Then he said to me, 'Who _are_ you?' And I said to him, 'I _am_ an Amalekite.'

###### v9
He said to me, 'Please stand over me and kill me, for convulsions have seized me, even though my life _is still_ in me.'

###### v10
So I stood over him and killed him, for I knew that he could not live after his falling; I took the crown that _was_ on his head and _the_ bracelet which _was_ on his arm; and here, I have brought them to my lord.

###### v11
David grabbed _at_ his clothes and tore them, _as did_ all of the men who _were_ with him.

###### v12
Then they mourned and wept and fasted over Saul and Jonathan his son until the evening, _as well_ as over the people of Yahweh and over the house of Israel because they had fallen by the sword.

###### v13
Then David said to the young man who _was_ reporting to him, "Where _are_ you from?" And he said, "I _am_ the son of an alien man. I _am_ an Amalekite."

###### v14
David said to him, "How _is it that_ you _were_ not afraid to stretch out your hand to destroy Yahweh's anointed one?"

###### v15
Then David called to one of the young men and said to him, "Come near; strike him." So he struck him down and he died.

###### v16
David said to him, "Your blood _is_ on your head, for your mouth has testified against you by saying, 'I killed Yahweh's anointed one!'"

###### v17
Then David sang this funeral song over Saul and over Jonathan his son.

###### v18
And he ordered "The Bow" to be taught to the children of Judah. Look, it _is_ written on the scroll of Jashar. ^[The Book of Jashar ("the upright") is also mentioned in Josh 10:13.]

###### v19
"The glory of Israel _is_ on your high places; how _the_ mighty have fallen!

###### v20
Do not tell it in Gath; do not proclaim it in the streets of Ashkelon,
lest the daughters of _the_ Philistines rejoice,
lest the daughters of the uncircumcised exult.

###### v21
O mountains of Gilboa, _let there be_ no dew or rain upon you
or on the fields of _grain for_ offerings,
for there the small shield of _the_ mighty _was_ defiled,
the small shield of Saul _was_ not anointed with oil.

###### v22
From the blood of _the_ slain, from the fat of _the_ mighty,
the bow of Jonathan did not turn back,
and the sword of Saul did not return _without effect_. ^[Literally "empty handedly"]

###### v23
Saul and Jonathan _were_ beloved and pleasant in their lives
and _were_ not separated in their death.
They _were_ swifter than eagles, stronger than lions.

###### v24
O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul,
the one who clothed you with crimson,
the one who _adorned your clothing with golden ornaments_. ^[Literally "put gold ornaments on your clothing"]

###### v25
How _the_ mighty have fallen in the midst of the battle;
Jonathan _lies_ slain on your high places.

###### v26
_I am distressed_ ^[Literally "Distress _is_ for me"] over you, my brother Jonathan.
you _were_ very dear to me;
your love _was_ more wonderful to me than the love of women.

###### v27
How _the_ mighty have fallen and the weapons of warfare perished."