---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 11
---

[[2 Sam-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_It came about in the spring_, ^[Literally "And it happened at the turn of the year"] at the time _kings_ ^[According to the reading tradition (_Qere)_; _Kethib_ has "angels" or "messengers"] go out, David sent Joab and his servants with him and all of Israel. They ravaged all of the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and besieged Rabbah, but David _was_ remaining in Jerusalem.

###### v2
It happened _late one afternoon_ ^[Literally "at the time of the evening"] _that_ David got up from his bed and walked about on the roof of the king's house, and he saw a woman bathing on her ^[Hebrew "the"] roof. Now the woman _was very beautiful_. ^[Literally "very good of appearance"]

###### v3
David sent and inquired about the woman, and _someone_ said, "_Is_ this not Bathsheba the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?"

###### v4
Then David sent messengers and took her, and she came to him, and he slept with her. (Now she had been purifying herself from her uncleanness.) And she returned to her house.

###### v5
The woman became pregnant, and she sent and told David, and she said, "I _am_ pregnant."

###### v6
So David sent to Joab, "Send Uriah the Hittite to me." So Joab sent Uriah to David.

###### v7
Uriah came to him, and David asked _how Joab and the army fared and how the war was going_. ^[Literally "as far as the peace of Joab, as far as the peace of the army, and as far as the peace of the battle"]

###### v8
David said to Uriah, "Go down to your house, and wash your feet." So Uriah went out from the king's house, and a gift from the king went out after him.

###### v9
But Uriah slept _at_ the entrance of the king's house with all the servants of his master and did not go down to his house.

###### v10
They told David, "Uriah did not go down to his house." David said to Uriah, "_Are_ you not coming from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?"

###### v11
Uriah said to David, "The ark and Israel and Judah _are_ living in the booths; and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord _are_ camping on the surface of the open field; and I, shall I go to my house to eat and to drink and to sleep with my wife? _By_ your life and the life of your soul, I surely will not do this thing."

###### v12
David said to Uriah, "Remain here _today_, ^[Literally "also the day"] and tomorrow I will send you away." So Uriah remained in Jerusalem on that day and the next.

###### v13
David invited him, and he ate and drank in his presence _so that he became drunk_, ^[Literally "and he made him drunk"] and he went out in the evening to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, but he did not go down to his house.

###### v14
And it happened in the morning, David wrote a letter to Joab, and he sent it by the hand of Uriah.

###### v15
He had written in the letter, "Put Uriah in the front, in the face of the fiercest fighting, then draw back from behind him so that he may be struck down and die."

###### v16
_When Joab was besieging_ ^[Literally "And it happened at the besieging of Joab"] the city, he put Uriah toward the place which he knew _there were valiant warriors_. ^[Literally "there _were_ men of ability"]

###### v17
The men of the city came out and fought with Joab. Some from the army from the servants of David fell; Uriah the Hittite also died.

###### v18
Joab sent and told David all of the news of the battle.

###### v19
He instructed the messenger, saying, "As you are finishing to speak all the news of the battle to the king,

###### v20
if the anger of the king rises and he says to you, 'Why did you go near the city to fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from _atop_ the wall?

###### v21
Who killed Abimelech the son of Jerub-bosheth, ^[In putting words in David's mouth, Joab alludes to the story of Abimelech the son of Gideon from Judg 9:52–55. Though Gideon was also known as Jerub-ba'al, Joab conventionally substitutes _bosheth_ (shame) for Ba'al to avoid naming the Canaanite deity] if not a woman who threw an upper millstone on him from _atop_ the wall and he died at Thebez? Why did you go near the wall?' Then you shall say, 'Your servant Uriah the Hittite also died.'"

###### v22
Then the messenger left, and he came and told David all that Joab had sent him _to say_.

###### v23
The messenger said to David, "Because _the men overpowered us_, ^[Literally "the men _were_ superior over us"] the men came out to us _in_ the field, but _we forced them back_ ^[Literally "we _were_ upon them"] to the entrance of the gate.

###### v24
The archers shot at your servant from _atop_ the wall, and some of the servants of the king died; your servant Uriah the Hittite also died."

###### v25
Then David said to the messenger, "Thus you shall say to Joab, '_Do not feel badly about this matter_; ^[Literally "Do not let his matter be evil in your eyes"] _now one and then another_ ^[Literally "for as this and as this"] the sword will devour. Intensify your attack on the city and overthrow it.'" And he encouraged him.

###### v26
When the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband _was_ dead, she mourned over her husband.

###### v27
When the mourning _was_ over, David sent and brought her to his household, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But the thing which David had done _was_ evil in the eyes of Yahweh.