---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 3
---

[[2 Sam-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The battle _was_ prolonged between the house of Saul and the house of David, but David __was_ growing stronger and stronger_ ^[Literally "_was_ going and strong"] while the house of Saul __was_ becoming weaker and weaker_. ^[Literally "_was_ going and weak"]

###### v2
And sons _were_ born to David in Hebron; his firstborn _was_ Amnon by Ahinoam _from Jezreel_ ^[Literally "the Jezreelitess"].

###### v3
His second _was_ Kileab by Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; the third _was_ Absalom the son of Maacah, _who was_ the daughter of Talmai the king of Geshur.

###### v4
The fourth _was_ Adonijah the son of Haggith; the fifth _was_ Shephatiah the son of Abital.

###### v5
The sixth _was_ Ithream by Eglah the wife of David. These _were_ born to David in Hebron.

###### v6
As the war between the house of Saul and the house of David was _continuing_, Abner was strengthening himself in the house of Saul.

###### v7
Saul had had a concubine, and her name _was_ Rizpah the daughter of Aiah. Then _Ish-Bosheth_ ^[Supported by some Hebrew and Greek manuscripts] said to Abner, "Why _did you have sex with_ ^[Literally "have you gone into"] my father's concubine?"

###### v8
_Abner became very angry_ ^[Literally "And it became hot for Abner very"] at the words of Ish-Bosheth, and he said, "_Am_ I the head of a dog which _is_ for Judah today? Do I not continue to show loyal love with the house of Saul your father, to his brothers, and to his friends? I have not let you fall into the hands of David, yet you have _accused me of sin with this woman_ ^[Literally "you have called me into account with the guilt of the woman"] today.

###### v9
Thus _may God punish Abner_, ^[Literally "may God do to Abner, and thus may he add to it"] _if I do not accomplish what Yahweh has sworn to David_; ^[Literally "for as that Yahweh has sworn to David, so I will accomplish for him"]

###### v10
_specifically,_ to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and to establish the throne of David over Israel and over Judah from Dan to Beersheba!"

###### v11
And _Ish-Bosheth_ was no longer able to _answer_ ^[Literally "return a word to"] Abner _because he feared him_. ^[Literally "because of his fearing him"]

###### v12
Abner sent messengers to David _where he was_, ^[Literally "under him"] saying, "To whom does the land _belong_? _Make your covenant with me_! ^[Literally "cut your covenant with me"] Look, my hand _is_ with you to bring all of Israel over to you!"

###### v13
He ^[David] said, "Good. _I will make a covenant with you_. ^[Literally "I will cut a covenant with you"] I am asking only one thing from you: You shall not see my face unless you bring Michal the daughter of Saul when you come to see _me_." ^[Literally "my face"]

###### v14
Then David sent messengers to Ish-Bosheth the son of Saul, saying, "Give _me_ my wife Michal whom I betrothed to myself ^[Hebrew "me"] for a hundred foreskins of _the_ Philistines."

###### v15
So Ish-Bosheth sent and took her from _her_ husband, from Paltiel the son of Laish. ^[The Hebrew Masoretic text (_Kethib_) reads "Lush"; _Qere_ reads "Laish"]

###### v16
But her husband went with her, _weeping all along_ ^[Literally "going and weeping"] after her as far as Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, "Go _and_ return." So he returned.

###### v17
The word of Abner _came to_ ^[Literally "was with"] the elders of Israel, saying, "_For quite some time_ ^[Literally "Both yesterday and the day before"] you were seeking David as king over you.

###### v18
So then, bring it about, because Yahweh had said to David, "Through the hand of David my servant _I am about_ to save my people Israel from the hand of _the_ Philistines and from the hand of all their enemies."

###### v19
Abner also spoke _privately to Benjamin_. ^[Literally "in the ears of Benjamin"] Abner also went _to speak to David_ ^[Literally "to speak in the ears of David"] in Hebron, all that _was_ good in the eyes of Israel and in the eyes of all the house of Benjamin.

###### v20
Then Abner came to David in Hebron and with him _were_ twenty men. David had prepared a feast for Abner and for the men who _were_ with him.

###### v21
And Abner said to David, "Let me get up and go and gather all of Israel to my lord the king, that they may _make a covenant_ ^[Literally "cut a covenant"] with you so you can reign over all which your soul desires." So David dismissed Abner, and he left in peace.

###### v22
And look, the servants of David and Joab came from the raid, and they brought much plunder with them. But Abner was not with David at Hebron, for he ^[David] had dismissed him, and he had gone in peace.

###### v23
When Joab and all the army that _was_ with him came, they told Joab, "Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he sent him away, and he left in peace."

###### v24
Then Joab came to the king and said, "What have you done? Abner came here to you? Why have you dismissed him that he _actually went away_? ^[Literally "and he went going"]

###### v25
You know that Abner the son of Ner came to deceive you. He came to learn about your going out and coming _in_ and to know all which you _are_ doing."

###### v26
Then Joab went out from David, and he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from Bor Hasirah, but David did not know _it_.

###### v27
When Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside to the middle of the gate to speak with him in private. Then he struck him in the stomach there and he died, _for he had shed the blood of Asahel his brother_. ^[Literally "for the blood of Asahel his brother." See Num 35:16–25]

###### v28
When David heard this afterwards, he said: "I and my kingdom _are_ innocent _before Yahweh_ ^[Literally "from with Yahweh"] forever _for_ the blood of Abner the son of Ner.

###### v29
May _the blood_ come down on the head of Joab and all the house of his father. _May the house of Joab never lack_ ^[Literally "May _there_ not be cut off from the house of Joab"] _one with_ a bodily discharge or _one with_ leprosy or _one who_ grasps the distaff or _one who_ falls by the sword or _one who is_ lacking food."

###### v30
So Joab and Abishai, his brother, killed Abner because he had killed Asahel, their brother, at Gibeon in the battle.

###### v31
David said to Joab and to all the people who _were_ with him, "Tear your clothing and put on sackcloth and mourn before Abner." Now King David _was_ following after the bier.

###### v32
And they buried Abner at Hebron. And the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept.

###### v33
The king sang a lament for Abner and said, "Should Abner have died the death of a fool?

###### v34
Your hands _were_ not tied and your feet _were_ not in contact with bronze fetters. You have fallen as one who falls before sons of wickedness." Then _all the people wept over him again_. ^[Literally "and all the people did again to weep over him"]

###### v35
Then all the people came to give David food. Still on that day, David swore, "_May God punish me_ ^[Literally "Thus may God do to me and thus may he add"] if I taste food or anything before the sun goes down."

###### v36
All the people noticed, and it _was_ good in their eyes, as everything that the king did _was_ good in the eyes of all the people.

###### v37
Then all the people and all of Israel realized on that day that _the king had not desired_ ^[Literally "that it _was_ not from the king"] to kill Abner the son of Ner.

###### v38
Then the king said to his servants, "Did you not realize that a prince and a great man has fallen today in Israel?

###### v39
I _am_ weak today even though anointed king, and these men, the sons of Zeruiah, _are_ crueler than I _am_. May Yahweh pay them back for doing wickedness according to their _own_ wickedness."