---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 22
---

[[2 Sam-21|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-23|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then David spoke to Yahweh the words of this song, ^[This same song is recorded in Psa 18, with minor differences] on the day Yahweh delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul.

###### v2
And he said:
"Yahweh _is_ my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer.

###### v3
I take refuge in God, my rock, ^[So many LXX mss, Targum, Vulgate, and Psa 18:3. MT has "the God of my rock"] my shield, and the _strength_ ^[Literally "horn"] of my salvation.
My stronghold and my refuge, O my savior, you will save me from violence!

###### v4
I call _upon_ Yahweh who is praiseworthy,
and I _am_ saved from those who hate me.

###### v5
For the breaker waves of death engulfed me;
the currents of chaos overwhelmed me.

###### v6
The ropes of Sheol entangled me;
the snares of death confronted me.

###### v7
In my distress I called _upon_ Yahweh, and to my God I called.
He heard my voice from his temple,
and my cry for help _was_ to his ears.

###### v8
The earth heaved and shook,
the foundations of heaven trembled and heaved
because _he was angry_. ^[Literally "it was hot for him"]

###### v9
Smoke went up from his nostrils and fire from his mouth.
Burning coals devoured, they burned from him.

###### v10
He bowed the heavens and came down;
a very thick cloud _was_ under his feet.

###### v11
He rode upon a cherub and flew;
he was seen on the wings of the wind.

###### v12
He put darkness _as_ a canopy all around him,
a collection of _thick rain clouds_. ^[Literally "clouds of thick clouds"]

###### v13
From the brightness before him
flamed burning coals of fire.

###### v14
Yahweh thundered from heaven,
and the Most High _uttered his voice_. ^[Literally "gave his voice"]

###### v15
He sent arrows and he scattered them,
lightning, and he directed them.

###### v16
Then the channels of water of the sea were exposed,
the foundations of the world,
at the rebuke of Yawheh,
from the blast of the breath of his nostrils.

###### v17
He sent from a high position _and_ took me;
he drew me from mighty waters.

###### v18
He delivered me from my strong enemies,
from those who hate me, for they _were_ mightier than I.

###### v19
They approached me on the day of my disaster,
but Yahweh _was_ my support.

###### v20
He brought me out to a spacious place.
He delivered me because he delighted in me.

###### v21
Yahweh rewarded me according to my righteousness,
according to the cleanness of my hands he recompensed me.

###### v22
For I have kept the ways of Yahweh;
I have not acted wickedly against my God.

###### v23
For all of his ordinances _were_ before me,
and I did not turn aside from his statutes.

###### v24
I was blameless before him,
and I kept myself from my iniquity.

###### v25
Yahweh has recompensed me according to my righteousness,
according to my cleanness before his eyes.

###### v26
With the loyal, you act as loyal,
and with the blameless, you show yourself blameless.

###### v27
With the pure, you show yourself pure,
but with the crooked, you appear as a fool.

###### v28
Humble people you will deliver,
but your eyes _are_ on the haughty, _whom_ you bring down.

###### v29
For you, O Yahweh _are_ my lamp,
and Yahweh lightens my darkness.

###### v30
For by you I can run a raid;
by my God I can leap over a wall.

###### v31
This God, his way _is_ blameless;
the promise of Yahweh _is_ flawless.
He _is_ a shield to all who take refuge in him.

###### v32
For who _is_ God apart from Yahweh?
And who _is_ a rock apart from our God?

###### v33
God _is_ my strong refuge,
he has fully opened my way. ^[Thus _Qere_; _Kethib_ has "his way"]

###### v34
He makes my feet ^[Thus _Qere_; _Kethib_ has "his feet"] like a doe deer,
and on my high places he has set me.

###### v35
He trains my hands for the war,
so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.

###### v36
You have given me the shield of your salvation;
your willingness to help has made me great.

###### v37
You have broadened my steps beneath me;
my ankles have not wobbled.

###### v38
I pursued those who hate me, and I destroyed them.
I did not turn back until finishing them.

###### v39
I wiped them out and I smashed them;
they did not get up; they fell under my feet.

###### v40
You have girded me with physical strength for the battle;
you caused those who rose up against me to kneel under me.

###### v41
_My enemies you cause to retreat from me_; ^[Literally "Those who hate me you give to me back"]
I destroy those who hate me.

###### v42
They looked out, but there was no deliverer,
_even_ to Yahweh, but he did not answer them.

###### v43
I beat them fine, like the dust of the earth;
like the mire of the streets, I crushed them, I stamped them down.

###### v44
You delivered me from the strife of my people;
you preserved me as the head of the nations.
A people I had not known served me.

###### v45
Children of a foreign land came cringing to me;
_when they heard of me_, ^[Literally "at the hearing of an ear"] they became obedient to me.

###### v46
Children of a foreign land lost heart
and came trembling from their strongholds.

###### v47
Yahweh lives! Blessed be my rock!
May God, the rock of my salvation, be exalted!

###### v48
God does vengeance for me,
bringing down peoples under me.

###### v49
He brings me out from my enemies,
and from those who rose up against me you lift me up,
and from men of violence you rescue me.

###### v50
Therefore I will extol you, Yahweh, among the nations!
I will sing praises to your name!

###### v51
He makes great salvation _for_ his king
and shows loyal love to his anointed one, David
and to his descendants forever."