---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 8
---

[[2 Sam-07|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-09|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened afterwards _that_ David attacked _the_ Philistines and subdued them, and he took Metheg Ammah from the hands of _the_ Philistines.

###### v2
When he defeated Moab, he measured them with the cord, making them lie on the ground. He measured two cords to kill and _the third cord_ ^[Literally "the filling of a cord"] to let live. ^[This method of selection must have been well known to the reader, but the exact procedure has been obscured over the millennia. It may be that one out of three lived through the process, only to become subservient] So Moab became servants of David, bringing tribute.

###### v3
Then David struck down Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, when he went to restore his monument ^[Hebrew "hand"] at the Euphrates River.

###### v4
David captured from him one thousand and seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand _foot soldiers_. ^[Literally "men of infantry"] David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but _from them_ ^[Literally "from him"] he spared a hundred chariot horses.

###### v5
When Aram of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, the king of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand men of Aram.

###### v6
David placed garrisons in Aram of Damascus, so Aram became servants of David, bringing tribute. Yahweh protected David everywhere he went.

###### v7
David took the small round gold shields which had _belonged_ ^[Literally "been"] to the servants of Hadadezer, and he brought them _to_ Jerusalem.

###### v8
From Betah and from Berothai, the towns of Hadadezer, King David took very many bronze _items_.

###### v9
When Toi, the king of Hamath, heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer,

###### v10
Toi sent Joram his son to King David _to greet him_ ^[Literally "to ask peace for himself"] and to congratulate him because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him; _for Hadadezer had often been at war with Toi_. ^[Literally "for Hadadezer _was_ a man of wars with Toi"] _He brought with him_ ^[Literally "In his hand were"] objects of silver and objects of gold and objects of bronze.

###### v11
King David dedicated them also to Yahweh _along_ with the silver and the gold that he had dedicated from all of the nations which he had subdued;

###### v12
from Aram and from Moab and from the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and from _the_ Philistines and from Amalek and from the plunder of Hadadezer the son of Rehob, the king of Zobah.

###### v13
So David made a name for himself when he returned from defeating Aram in the Valley of Salt, eighteen thousand.

###### v14
He put garrisons in Edom; all over Edom he put garrisons, and all of Edom became servants of David. Yahweh protected David wherever he went.

###### v15
David reigned over all of Israel, and he ^[Hebrew "David"] was administering justice and righteousness for all his people.

###### v16
Joab the son of Zeruiah _was_ over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud _was_ secretary.

###### v17
Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar _were_ priests and Seraiah _was_ scribe.

###### v18
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada _was over_ the Kerethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David _were_ priests.