---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 12
---

[[2 Sam-11|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-13|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
So Yahweh sent Nathan to David, and he came to him and said, "Two men were in a certain city; one _was_ rich and the other _was_ poor.

###### v2
The rich _man_ had very many flocks and herds,

###### v3
but the poor _man_ had nothing except for one small ewe lamb which he had bought. He had nurtured her, and she grew up with him and with his children together. She used to eat from his morsel and drink from his cup, and she used to lie in his lap and became like a daughter for him.

###### v4
And a visitor came to the rich man, but he _was reluctant_ ^[Literally "felt sorry"] to take from his flocks or from his herds to prepare a meal for the traveler when he came to him. So he took the ewe lamb of the poor man and prepared it for the man who had come to him."

###### v5
Then _the anger of David was kindled_ ^[Literally "the nose of David became very hot"] against the man, and he said to Nathan, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] the man who has done this _deserves to die_! ^[Literally "_is_ a son of death"]

###### v6
He shall restore the ewe lamb fourfold because he has done this thing, and because he had no pity."

###### v7
Then Nathan said to him, "You _are_ the man! Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel: 'I anointed you as king over Israel, and I delivered you from the hand of Saul.

###### v8
I gave you the household of your master and the women of your master into your lap. I also gave you the house of Israel and Judah; if _that had been too_ little, I would have added to you _much more_. ^[Literally "as here and as here"]

###### v9
Why have you despised the word of Yahweh by doing evil in his eyes? ^[Thus _Kethib_; the reading tradition (_Qere)_ reads "my eyes"] Uriah the Hittite you have struck down with the sword, and his wife you have taken to yourself as wife! You have killed him with the sword of the _Ammonites_! ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"]

###### v10
So then, a sword will not turn away from your house forever, because you have despised me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife!'

###### v11
Thus says Yahweh, 'Look, I _am_ going to raise up evil against you from _within_ your house, and I will take your women before your eyes, and I will give them to your neighbor, and he shall sleep with your wives _in broad daylight_. ^[Literally "before the eyes of this sun"]

###### v12
Though you did this in secret, I will do this thing before all of Israel _in broad daylight_!'" ^[Literally "before the sun"]

###### v13
Then David said to Nathan, "I have sinned against Yahweh!" ^[See Pss 32:1–5; 51:1–13] Nathan said to David, "Yahweh has also forgiven your sin; you shall not die.

###### v14
But because you have _utterly scorned_ ^[Literally "scorning you have scorned." The term "enemies of" in the MT is likely a textual corruption and is deleted here] Yahweh in this matter, the son born for you _will certainly die_." ^[Literally "dying will die" (compare Gen 2:17)]

###### v15
Then Nathan went to his house, and Yahweh struck the child that the wife of Uriah bore for David, and he became ill.

###### v16
David pleaded _with_ God on behalf of the boy and David fasted. He went to spend the night and lay upon the ground.

###### v17
The elders of his household stood over him to lift him up from the ground, but he _was_ not willing, and he did not eat _any_ food with them.

###### v18
It happened on the seventh day that the child died, and the servants of David _were_ afraid to tell him that the child _was_ dead, for they said, "Look, when the child _was_ alive, we spoke to him, but he would not listen to our voice. How can we tell him, 'The child _is_ dead'? He may do _something_ evil."

###### v19
When David saw that his servants _were_ whispering together, he realized that the child _was_ dead. Then David said to his servants, "_Is_ the child dead?" And they said, "He _is_ dead."

###### v20
David stood up from the ground and washed and anointed himself and changed his clothing. Then he went _to_ the house of Yahweh and worshiped, and he went to his _own_ house. He asked, so they served him food, and he ate.

###### v21
Then his servants said to him, "What _is_ this thing that you have done? While the child _was_ alive, you fasted and wept; _now_ that the child has died, you get up and eat food!"

###### v22
He said, "When the child _was_ still alive, I fasted and I wept because I thought, 'Who knows? Yahweh may have mercy on me that the child will live.'

###### v23
But now he _is_ dead. Why _should I be_ fasting? _Am_ I able to return him again? I _am_ going to him, but he cannot return to me."

###### v24
David consoled Bathsheba his wife, and he went to her and slept with her. She bore a son, and he called ^[So _Kethib_; _Qere_ reads "she called"] him Solomon, and Yahweh loved him.

###### v25
He sent _word_ by the hand of Nathan the prophet, so he called him Jedidiah ^[Jedidiah means "beloved of Yahweh"] because of Yahweh.

###### v26
And Joab fought against Rabbah of the _Ammonites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and he captured _the royal city_. ^[Literally "city of the kingship"]

###### v27
Then Joab sent messengers to David and said, "We have fought against Rabbah, and we captured the city of the waters.

###### v28
So then, gather the remainder of the army and encamp against the city and capture it, lest I capture the city and my name be proclaimed over it."

###### v29
So David gathered all of the army, and he went to Rabbah and fought against it and captured it.

###### v30
He took the crown of their king from his head. (Now its weight _was_ a talent of gold, and there _was_ a precious stone _in it_ and it _was_ put on David's head.) He brought out the plunder of the city _in great abundance_. ^[Literally "very many"]

###### v31
He also brought out the people who _were_ in it and put them to the saws and to the iron picks and to the iron axes, and he sent them to the place of the brickmakers. Thus he used to do to all the cities of the _Ammonites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and he and all of the army returned to Jerusalem.