---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 24
---

[[2 Sam-23|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
Again Yahweh _was_ angry with Israel, and he ^[The parallel passage in 1 Chr 21 names the "he" as Satan] incited David against them, saying, "Go count Israel and Judah."

###### v2
The king said to Joab, the commander of the army who _was_ with him: "Please go about through all the tribes of Israel from Dan to Beersheba, and count the people that I may know the number of the people."

###### v3
Then Joab said to the king, "May Yahweh your God increase the people a hundred times _what they are_ ^[Literally "as them and as them"] as the eyes of my lord the king are seeing. But my lord the king, why does he desire this thing?"

###### v4
But the word of the king prevailed over Joab and over the commanders of the army, so Joab and the commanders of the army went out from before the king to count the people of Israel.

###### v5
They crossed over the Jordan and camped at Aroer to the south of the city, which _was_ in the middle of the wadi of Gad, and up to Jazer.

###### v6
Then they went to Gilead and to the land of Tahtim Hodshi. They came to Dan Jaan and around to Sidon

###### v7
and came to the fortress of Tyre and all the cities of the Hivites and the Canaanites. Then they went out to the Negev of Judah at Beersheba.

###### v8
They went about through all the land, and they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.

###### v9
Then Joab gave the number of the counting of the people to the king. Israel _was_ eight hundred thousand _valiant warriors_ ^[Literally "men of ability"] wielding the sword, and the men of Judah _were_ five hundred thousand.

###### v10
The heart of David struck him after he had counted the people, and David said to Yahweh, "I have sinned greatly in what I have done! So then, O Yahweh, please forgive the guilt of your servant because I have acted very foolishly."

###### v11
When David got up in the morning, the word of Yahweh came to Gad the prophet, the seer of David, saying,

###### v12
"Go and speak to David, 'Thus says Yahweh, three things I _am_ laying on you; choose for yourself one of them and I will do it to you.'"

###### v13
Then Gad came to David, and he told him and said to him, "Shall seven years of famine in the land come to you? Or three months of your fleeing from your enemies while he _is_ pursuing you? Or should there be three days of pestilence in your land? Now consider and decide what I must return to the one who sent me a word."

###### v14
Then David said to Gad, "I _am_ greatly distressed. Please let us fall into the hand of Yahweh, because he _is_ great in his compassion; but into the hand of man don't let me fall."

###### v15
Then Yahweh sent a plague into Israel from the morning _until the agreed time_, ^[Literally "until the time of agreed time"] and from the people from Dan to Beersheba, seventy thousand men died.

###### v16
When the angel stretched out his hand to destroy Jerusalem, Yahweh regretted about the evil, and he said to the angel who brought destruction among the people, "Enough, now relax your hand." Now the angel of Yahweh _was_ at the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.

###### v17
David spoke to Yahweh when he saw the angel destroying among the people, and he said, "Look, I have sinned and I have done wrong, but these sheep, what did they do? Please let your hand be against me and against the house of my father."

###### v18
Then Gad came to David on that same day and said to him, "Go up and erect an altar to Yahweh at the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite."

###### v19
So David went up according to the word of Gad, as Yahweh had commanded.

###### v20
Araunah looked down and saw the king and his servants coming over to him, so Araunah went out and bowed down before the king with his face to the ground.

###### v21
Then Araunah said, "Why has my lord the king come to his servant?" David said, "To buy from you the threshing floor, to build an altar to Yahweh who brought a halt to the plague on the people."

###### v22
Araunah said to David, "Let my lord the king take and offer what _is_ good in his eyes. Look, here _are_ the cattle for the burnt offering and the threshing sledge and the yokes of the oxen for the firewood.

###### v23
All of this Araunah hereby gives to the king." Then Araunah said to the king, "May Yahweh your God respond favorably for you."

###### v24
Then the king said to Araunah, "No, but _I will certainly buy_ ^[Literally "buying I will buy"] it from you for a price; I don't want to offer to Yahweh my God burnt offerings that cost me nothing." So David bought the threshing floor and the cattle for fifty shekels of silver.

###### v25
David built an altar to Yahweh there, and he offered burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. Then Yahweh responded to _his_ prayer for the land and brought the plague to a halt from upon Israel.