---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 2
---

[[2 Sam-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened after this that David inquired of Yahweh, saying, "Shall I go up into one of the cities of Judah?" And Yahweh said to him, "Go up." David asked, "Where shall I go up?" And he said, "To Hebron."

###### v2
So David went up there _along with_ ^[Literally "and also"] his two wives, Ahinoam _from Jezreel_ ^[Literally "the Jezreelitess"] and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.

###### v3
Also, David brought up his men who _were_ with him, each _with_ ^[Literally "and"] his household, and they settled in the towns of Hebron.

###### v4
Then the men of Judah came, and they anointed David there as king over the house of Judah, and they told David, "The men of Jabesh-Gilead buried Saul."

###### v5
So David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-Gilead and said to them, "May you be blessed by Yahweh because you did this loyal love with your lord, with Saul, and you buried him.

###### v6
Now may Yahweh show loyal love and faithfulness with you. I will also show the good with you that you have done in this matter.

###### v7
So then, let your hands be strong and _be valiant_, ^[Literally "as sons of ability"] for your lord Saul _is_ dead, and the house of Judah has anointed me as king over them."

###### v8
But Abner the son of Ner, the commander of Saul's army, had taken Ish-Bosheth the son of Saul and brought him over _to_ Mahanaim.

###### v9
He made him king over Gilead, over the Ashurites, over Jezreel, over Ephraim, over Benjamin, and over Israel, all of it.

###### v10
Ish-Bosheth the son of Saul _was_ forty years old when he became king over Israel and he reigned two years; however, the house of Judah _followed_ ^[Literally "were after"] David.

###### v11
The number of days that David was king over Hebron, over the house of Judah, _was_ seven years and six months.

###### v12
Abner the son of Ner and the servants of Ish-Bosheth the son of Saul went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon.

###### v13
Then Joab the son of Zeruiah and the servants of David went out, and they met at the pool of Gibeon. The one group sat on one side of the pool, and the other sat on the other side.

###### v14
Abner said to Joab, "Let the young men come up and fight in our presence." And Joab said, "Let them come up."

###### v15
So they came forward and passed by in number: twelve for Benjamin and for Ish-Bosheth the son of Saul, and twelve from the servants of David.

###### v16
Then each seized his _opponent_ ^[Literally "neighbor"] by the head and _each thrust_ his sword in the side of his opponent, so they fell together. So they ^[Hebrew "he"] called the name of that place Helkath Hazzurim, ^[Helkath Hazzurim possibly means "the slippery slope"] which _is_ in Gibeon.

###### v17
Then the battle _became increasingly fierce_ ^[Literally "and it was/became strong/fierce until very"] on that day, and Abner and the men of Israel _were_ defeated before the servants of David.

###### v18
The three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab and Abishai and Asahel. Now Asahel _was_ swift with his feet as one of the gazelles which _is_ in the open field.

###### v19
So Asahel pursued ^[Hebrew "pursued after"] Abner, and he did not turn aside to the right or to the left from going after Abner.

###### v20
Abner turned around and said, "_Are_ you this Asahel?" And he said, "Yes."

###### v21
Abner said to him, "Turn aside to your right or to your left; seize for yourself one of the young men, and take his belongings for yourself." But Asahel _was_ not willing to turn aside from him.

###### v22
So Abner said to Asahel _once again_, ^[Literally "and he again did again"] "_For your own sake_, ^[Literally "for yourself"] turn aside _from following me_. ^[Literally "from after me"] Why should I strike you down to the ground? How could I _show my face_ ^[Literally "lift up my face"] to Joab your brother?"

###### v23
But he refused to turn away, so Abner struck him in the stomach with the butt of the spear, and the spear went out of his back. He fell there and he died _on the spot_. ^[Literally "in his place"] _Then_ ^[Literally "And it happened"] all who came to the place where Asahel fell and died _just_ stood there.

###### v24
So Joab and Abishai pursued ^[Hebrew "pursued after"] Abner _when_ ^[Literally "and"] the sun went down. And they came to the hill _country_ of Ammah, which _is_ _before Giah_ ^[Literally "_lies_ on the face of Giah"] _on_ the way to the wilderness of Gibeon.

###### v25
The descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Benjamin rallied after Abner, and they became as one fighting group and stood on the top of a certain hill.

###### v26
Then Abner called to Joab and said, "Will _the_ sword devour forever? Do you not know that _there_ will be bitterness in the end? _How long_ ^[Literally "And up to when"] will you not tell the people to turn _away from pursuing_ ^[Literally "from after"] their brothers?"

###### v27
Joab said, "_As God lives_, ^[Literally "The life of God"] for if you had not spoken, the people would surely have gone up in the morning, each _one of them_ _from following after_ ^[Literally "from after"] his brother."

###### v28
Then Joab blew on the trumpet and all the people stopped, and they no longer pursued after Israel, and they did not fight with them again.

###### v29
Then Abner and his men went through the Arabah all that night, and they crossed over the Jordan. They went all the forenoon and came to Mahanaim.

###### v30
After Joab returned from _pursuing_ ^[Hebrew "after"] Abner, he gathered all the people; nineteen of the servants of David _were_ missing _along_ with Asahel.

###### v31
The servants of David had killed some of the Benjaminites among the men of Abner; three hundred and sixty men had died.

###### v32
Then they picked up Asahel and buried him in the grave of his father, which _was at_ Bethlehem. Joab and his men went all that night __arriving_ in Hebron at first light_. ^[Literally "it became light for them in Hebron"]