---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 21
---

[[2 Sam-20|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-22|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
There _was_ a famine in the days of David _for_ three years, year after year. And David _inquired of Yahweh_, ^[Literally "sought the face of Yahweh"] and Yahweh said, "The bloodguilt _is_ on Saul and on his household, because he killed the Gibeonites."

###### v2
So the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them. Now the Gibeonites _were_ not from the _Israelites_; ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] they _were_ from the remainder of the Amorites. Now the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] had sworn to them, ^[The treaty between Israel and the Gibeonites is found in Josh 9] but Saul tried to wipe them out in his zeal for the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] and Judah.

###### v3
So David asked the Gibeonites, "What can I do for you, and with what can I make amends that you may bless the inheritance of Yahweh?"

###### v4
Then the Gibeonites said to him, "_It is not a matter for us of_ ^[Literally "There is not for me (_Qere_ 'us')"] silver or gold with Saul or with his household. It is not for us to put to death anyone in Israel." He asked, "What _are_ you saying _that_ I should do for you all?"

###### v5
Then they said to the king, "The man who consumed us and who plotted against us _so that_ we were destroyed from existing in all of the territory of Israel,

###### v6
let seven men from his sons be given over to us, and we will execute them before Yahweh in Gibeah of Saul, the chosen one of Yahweh." Then the king said, "I will give them over."

###### v7
But the king spared Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the sworn oath of Yahweh which _was_ between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul.

###### v8
So the king took two of the sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, whom she bore to Saul, namely Armoni and Mephibosheth, and five of the sons of Michal the daughter of Saul whom she had borne to Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite.

###### v9
He gave them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they executed them on the mountain in the presence of Yahweh, and the seven fell together. Now they were put to death in the days of the harvest, at the beginning of the harvest of barley.

###### v10
Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took the sackcloth, and she spread it for herself on the rock at the beginning of the harvest until water gushed forth on them from heaven, but she did not allow the birds of heaven to rest on them by day nor the animals of the field by night.

###### v11
David _was_ told about what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done.

###### v12
So David left and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from the rulers of Jabesh Gilead, who had stolen them from the public square of Beth Shan, where _the_ Philistines hung them _when_ ^[Literally "on the day"] _the_ Philistines killed Saul on Gilboa.

###### v13
He brought up the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from there, and they gathered the bones of the executed.

###### v14
And they buried the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son in the land of Benjamin at Zela, in the tomb of Kish his father. They did all that the king had commanded, and afterward God was entreated for the land.

###### v15
There _was_ war again for _the_ Philistines with Israel, and David and his servants with him went down, and they fought _the_ Philistines, and David grew weary.

###### v16
Now Yishbi in Nob, who _was_ among the descendents of Raphah ^[The descendants of Raphah (i.e., the Rephaim) _were_ thought to be giants] (now the weight of his spearhead _was_ three hundredweight of bronze, and he _was_ newly armed), said that he would kill David.

###### v17
But Abishai the son of Zeruiah helped him, and he attacked the Philistine and killed him. Then the men of David swore to him, saying, "You shall not go out with us any longer to the battle, so that you do not quench the lamp of Israel."

###### v18
It happened afterward that there _was_ again battle at Gob with _the_ Philistines. Then Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Saph who _was_ among the descendants of the Raphah.

###### v19
There _was_ again a battle with _the_ Philistines at Gob. And Elhanan the son of Jaare-Oregim, the Bethlehemite, killed Goliath ^[In view of the account of David and Goliath in 1 Sam 17, it _is_ likely that Elhanan actually killed the brother of Goliath, Lahmi, in 1 Chr 20:5] the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear _was_ like the beam of a weaver.

###### v20
Once again there _was_ battle at Gath, and there _was_ _a man of great size_. ^[Literally "a man of measurement"] The fingers of his hand and the toes of his feet _were_ six and six, twenty-four in number. He _was_ also born to the Raphah.

###### v21
He taunted Israel but Jonathan the son of Shimei, the brother of David, killed him.

###### v22
These four _were_ born for the Raphah in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.