---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 6
---

[[2 Sam-05|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-07|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
David again gathered all the chosen men in Israel, thirty thousand.

###### v2
David got up and went and all the people who _were_ with him, from Baale-judah to bring up from there the ark of God which _is_ called the name, the name of Yahweh of hosts, _upon which the cherubim sit_. ^[Literally "the cherubim _are_ sitting on him"]

###### v3
They loaded the ark of God on a new utility cart, and they carried it from the house of Abinadab, which _was_ on the hill. Now Uzza and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, _were_ driving the new utility cart along.

###### v4
So they brought it out from the house of Abinadab, which _was_ on the hill with the ark of God, and Ahio _was_ going before the ark.

###### v5
Now David and all the house of Israel _were_ dancing before Yahweh, with all kinds of _musical instruments made from_ ash trees, and with zithers, harps, tambourines, sistrums, and cymbals.

###### v6
When they came to the threshing floor of Nakon, Uzza reached out to the ark of God and took hold of _it_, because the oxen had stumbled.

###### v7
_Then the anger of Yahweh was kindled_ ^[Literally "Then the nose of Yahweh became hot"] against Uzza, and God struck him down there because of the indiscretion, ^[Legal regulations offered by Moses did not permit an Israelite to handle the ark of the covenant in this manner (compare Exod 25:12–16)] and he died there beside the ark of God.

###### v8
_David was angry_ ^[Literally "It was hot for David"] because Yahweh had burst out against Uzza, and he called that place Perez-Uzza until this day.

###### v9
But David feared Yahweh on that day and said, "How can the ark of Yahweh come to me?"

###### v10
However, David _was_ not willing to bring the ark of Yahweh to himself, to the city of David, so David caused it to turn _to_ the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.

###### v11
So the ark of Yahweh remained _in_ the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite _for_ three months, and Yahweh blessed Obed-Edom and all his household.

###### v12
It _was_ told to King David, "Yahweh has blessed the household of Obed-Edom and all that _is_ his because of the ark of God." So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the city of David with jubilation.

###### v13
It happened _that_ when the carriers of the ark of Yahweh had marched six steps that he sacrificed an ox and a fatling.

###### v14
Now David _was_ dancing with all _his_ might before Yahweh, and David _was_ wearing ^[Hebrew "girded with"] a linen ephod.

###### v15
So David and all the house of Israel _were_ bringing up the ark of Yahweh with shouts of joyful acclaim and with the sound of the trumpet.

###### v16
It happened that when the ark of Yahweh came _into_ the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked down through the window and saw King David leaping and dancing before Yahweh, and she despised him in her heart.

###### v17
They brought the ark of Yahweh and set it in its place in the middle of the tent which David had pitched for it. Then David offered up burnt offerings and fellowship offerings in the presence of Yahweh.

###### v18
When David had finished from the sacrificing of the burnt offerings and the fellowship offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Yahweh of hosts.

###### v19
Then he distributed to all the people, to all the multitude of Israel, from man to woman, to each: one ring-shaped piece of bread, one cake of dates, and one cake of raisins; and all the people went each to his house.

###### v20
When David returned to bless his household, Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David. She said, "How the king of Israel honored himself today _by uncovering himself_ ^[Literally "who has uncovered himself"] before the eyes of the maids of his servants, _as the total exposure of a worthless one_." ^[Literally "as the total uncovering of one of the worthless"]

###### v21
So David said to Michal, "_In the_ presence of Yahweh who chose me _over_ ^[Literally "more than"] your father and _over_ ^[Literally "more than"] his household, to appoint me _as_ leader over the people of Yahweh, over Israel, I have celebrated before Yahweh.

###### v22
I will demean myself again more than this, and I will be abased in my eyes, but with the maids whom you mentioned, with them I will be honored."

###### v23
So for Michal the daughter of Saul, she had no child until the day of her death.