---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 17
---

[[2 Sam-16|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-18|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Please let me choose twelve thousand men, and I will set out and pursue after David _tonight_. ^[Literally "the night"]

###### v2
I will come upon him while he _is_ weary and _weak_. ^[Literally "slack of hands"] I will startle him, and all of the people who _are_ with him will flee. Then I will strike down the king _while_ he _is_ alone.

###### v3
Then I will return all the people to you; when all have returned, the man whom you _are_ seeking _will be dead_, ^[According to the MT; the LXX has "and I will return all the people to you the way a bride returns to her husband, except the life of the one man whom you are seeking"] but all the people will be safe."

###### v4
The word _was_ right in the eyes of Absalom and in the eyes of all the elders of Israel.

###### v5
Then Absalom said, "Please call also for Hushai the Arkite, and let us hear _what he has to say_ ^[Literally "what _is_ in his mouth"] also."

###### v6
So Hushai came to Absalom, who said to him, "Shall we do according to this word _that_ Ahithophel has spoken? If not, then you tell _us_."

###### v7
Then Hushai said to Absalom, "The counsel that Ahithophel gave _is_ not good _at this time_." ^[Literally "at this occurrence"]

###### v8
Hushai continued, "You know your father and his men, that they _are_ mighty warriors and they _are enraged_ ^[Literally "_are_ bitter of soul"] as a bear robbed of _her_ offspring in the field. Your father _is_ a man of war, so he will not spend the night with the troops.

###### v9
Now he has hidden himself in one of the caves or in one of the places. At the moment he falls on them ^[I.e., Absalom's troops] the first time, _whoever hears_ ^[Literally "and the one who hears hears"] the report will say, 'There has been a defeat among the people who follow after Absalom.'

###### v10
And he _is_ also a _valiant warrior_, ^[Literally "son of ability"] whose heart _is_ like the heart of the lion. He ^[i.e., one of Absalom's troops] will _certainly melt_ ^[Literally "melting he will melt"] with fear, for all Israel knows that your father _is_ a mighty warrior and _those_ who _are_ with him _are_ _valiant warriors_. ^[Literally "son of ability"]

###### v11
I give the advice that all of Israel from Dan to Beersheba should be completely gathered to you, as the sand which _is_ on the seashore for abundance, with _you personally_ ^[Literally "your face"] going into the battle.

###### v12
Then we will come to him in one of the places where he may be found, and we shall come upon him as the dew falls on the ground. He and all the men who are with him will not survive, _not_ even one!

###### v13
_Even_ if he withdraws to a city, all Israel will bring up ropes to that city, and they will drag him away to the valley until there _is_ not even a pebble to be found."

###### v14
Then Absalom and all the men of Israel said, "The advice of Hushai the Arkite _is_ better than the advice of Ahithophel." (Now Yahweh had ordained to frustrate the good counsel of Ahithophel in order for Yahweh to bring misery upon Absalom).

###### v15
Hushai said to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, "_Thus and so_ ^[Literally "so this and so this"] Ahithophel advised Absalom and the elders of Israel, but _thus and so_ ^[Literally "so this and so this"] I have advised.

###### v16
So then, send quickly and tell David, 'Don't spend the night at the fords of the wilderness! Moreover, by all means cross over lest the king and all the people who _are_ with him be swallowed up.'"

###### v17
Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz _were_ staying at En Rogel, so a servant girl used to go and tell them, then they would go and tell King David, for they _were_ not able to be seen coming to the city.

###### v18
But a young man saw them and told Absalom, so both of them went quickly and came to the house of a man at Bahurim. Now he had a well in his courtyard, so they went down there.

###### v19
Then the woman took and spread a covering over the opening of the well; then she spread out dried grain on it, so nothing was discovered.

###### v20
When the servants of Absalom came to the woman _at_ the house, they said, "Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?" And she said to them, "They crossed over the brook of water." So they searched but could not find them, so they returned to Jerusalem.

###### v21
After they left, they came up from the well and went and told King David. They said to David, "Set out and cross over the water quickly, for thus Ahithophel has advised against you."

###### v22
So David and all the people who _were_ with him set out, and they crossed over the Jordan until morning light until _there was no one_ ^[Literally "until one _was_ not missing"] missing who had not crossed over the Jordan.

###### v23
When Ahithophel saw that his advice _was_ not followed, he saddled the donkey, and he set out and went up to his house in his city. _After he set his house in order_, ^[Literally "And he commanded to his household"] he hanged himself, and he died and was buried in the tomb of his ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v24
Now David had come to Mahanaim, and Absalom had crossed over the Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him.

###### v25
Absalom had appointed Amasa in place of Joab over the army. Now Amasa _was_ the son of a man whose name _was_ Ithra the Israelite, _who had married_ ^[Literally "who went to"] Abigail the daughter of Nahash the sister of Zeruiah, the mother of Joab.

###### v26
Israel and Absalom camped _in_ the land of Gilead.

###### v27
Just as David had arrived in Mahanaim, Shobi the son of Nahash from Rabbah of the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and Makir the son of Ammiel from Lo Debar and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim

###### v28
brought beds and basins and objects of pottery, as well as wheat, barley, flour, roasted grain, beans, lentils,

###### v29
honey, curds, sheep, cheese, and cattle for David and for the people who _were_ with him to eat. For they had thought, "The troops _are_ hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness."