---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 13
---

[[2 Sam-12|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-14|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened afterwards that Absalom the son of David had a beautiful sister whose name _was_ Tamar, and Amnon the son of David fell in love with her.

###### v2
And Amnon _was so frustrated that he felt ill_ ^[Literally "_was_ distressed to the point of sickness"] because of Tamar his sister, because she _was_ a virgin, and it _was_ too difficult in Amnon's eyes to do anything with her.

###### v3
Now Amnon had a friend whose name _was_ Jonadab the son of Shimeah, the brother of David. (Now Jonadab _was_ a very crafty man.)

###### v4
And he said to him, "Why _are_ you so sullen _every morning_, ^[Literally "in the morning, in the morning"] O son of the king? Will you not tell me?" And Amnon said to him, "I _am_ in love with Tamar, the sister of my brother Absalom."

###### v5
Then Jonadab said to him, "Lie down on your bed and appear ill. If your father comes to see you, you shall say to him, 'Please let Tamar my sister come and give me food to eat, and let her prepare the food before my eyes, in order that I may see it and eat from her hand.'"

###### v6
So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill, and the king came to see him. Amnon said to the king, "Please let Tamar my sister come, and let her bake two cakes before my eyes that I may eat from her hand."

###### v7
So David sent to the house for Tamar, saying, "Please go to the house of Amnon your brother and prepare food for him."

###### v8
Tamar went to the house of Amnon her brother. Now he _was_ lying down, and she took the dough and kneaded _it_ and made cakes before his eyes, and she baked the cakes.

###### v9
Then she took the pan and poured it out before him, but he refused to eat. Then Amnon said, "Let all _the_ men go out from me." So all _the_ men went out from him.

###### v10
Then Amnon said to Tamar, "Bring the food _to_ the private room that I may eat from your hand." So Tamar took the cakes which she had made and brought them to Amnon her brother in ^[Hebrew "to"] the private room.

###### v11
When she brought them near to him to eat, he took hold of her and said to her, "Come, lie with me, my sister!"

###### v12
Then Tamar said to him, "No, my brother! Do not force me, for such a thing has not been done in Israel. Do not do this disgraceful thing!

###### v13
As for me, where should I take my disgrace? You will be as one of the fools in Israel. So please, speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you."

###### v14
But he _was_ not willing to listen to her voice. He _was_ stronger than she, and he forced her and lay with her.

###### v15
Then Amnon hated her _very deeply_, ^[Literally "with a great hatred"] for the hatred with which he hated her _was_ greater than _the_ love with which he had loved her. So Amnon said to her, "Get up _and_ go."

###### v16
She said to him, "No, because this evil in sending me away _is_ greater than the other you have done to me." But he _was_ not willing to listen to her.

###### v17
Then he called his young man who _was_ serving him and said, "Please send this woman from me to the outside, and bolt the door behind her!"

###### v18
Now there _was_ a long-sleeved robe on her, for so they clothed the daughters of the king who _were_ virgins, in robes. His servant put her outside, and he bolted the door behind her.

###### v19
Tamar put ashes on her head, and she tore the long-sleeved robe which _was_ on her. She put her hand on her head, and _she went away, crying out as she went_. ^[Literally "she went, going and crying aloud"]

###### v20
Absalom her brother said to her, "_Was_ Amnon your brother with you? But now, my sister, be quiet; he _is_ your brother. _Do not take this matter to heart_." ^[Literally "Do not place/set your heart to this matter"] So Tamar remained a desolate woman in the house of Absalom her brother.

###### v21
Now King David heard all these things, and _he became very angry_. ^[Literally "it became very hot for him"]

###### v22
Absalom did not speak with Amnon _either bad or good_, ^[Literally "as far as from bad and up to good"] for Absalom hated Amnon _over the matter when_ ^[Literally "because of the thing that"] he raped Tamar his sister.

###### v23
_About two full years later_, ^[Literally "And it happened at two years _of_ days"] Absalom's shearers were in Baal Hazor, which _is_ near Ephraim, and Absalom summoned all the sons of the king.

###### v24
Then Absalom went to the king and said, "Look, here _are_ your servant's shearers; please let the king and his servants go with your servant.

###### v25
The king said to Absalom, "No my son, not all of us shall go, so that we not be a burden to you." And he urged him, but he _was_ not willing to go, but he blessed him.

###### v26
So Absalom said, "But _will you_ not let Amnon my brother go with us?" And the king said to him, "Why should he go with you?"

###### v27
But Absalom pressed him, so he sent Amnon with him and all of the sons of the king.

###### v28
Absalom commanded his servants, saying, "Please watch. At the moment the heart of Amnon _is_ _tipsy_ ^[Literally "good"] with wine, then I shall say to you, 'Strike Amnon down,' and you shall kill him! Don't be afraid. _Is_ it not I myself who has commanded you? Be courageous and be _valiant!_ ^[Literally "as sons of ability"]

###### v29
So Absalom's servants did to Amnon just as Absalom commanded, and all the sons of the king got up, and each mounted his mule and fled.

###### v30
_While they were on the way_, ^[Literally "And it happened they _were_ on the way"] the message came to David, "Absalom has killed all the sons of the king, and not one of them _was_ left."

###### v31
Then the king rose and tore his garments, and he lay on the ground, and all his servants standing by _were_ tearing their garments.

###### v32
Then Jonadab the son of Shimeah, the brother of David, responded and said, "My lord should not think that all the young men, the sons of the king, _are_ dead, because only Amnon _is_ dead. _Absalom was talking about it_, ^[Literally "For it was on the mouth of Absalom"] as it was being determined from the day he ^[Amnon] raped Tamar his sister.

###### v33
So then, let not my lord the king set his heart on this matter, thinking, 'All the sons of the king _are_ dead,' for only Amnon alone _is_ dead."

###### v34
So Absalom fled, and the young man who _was_ keeping watch lifted up his eyes and saw, and there were many people coming from the road behind him from the side of the mountain.

###### v35
Jonadab said to the king, "Look, the sons of the king have come. According to the word of your servant, so it has come about."

###### v36
When he finished speaking, look, the sons of the king came and they lifted up their voice and wept. Also, the king and all his servants wept a very great weeping.

###### v37
Absalom fled and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, the king of Geshur. _David_ mourned over his son _day after day_. ^[Literally "all the days"]

###### v38
But Absalom had fled and went _to_ Geshur, and he _was_ there three years.

###### v39
King David longed to go out to Absalom, for he was consoled that Amnon had died.