---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 10
---

[[2 Sam-09|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-11|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
_Afterwards the king of the Ammonites died_, ^[Literally "And it happened afterwards _that_ the king of the sons of Ammon died"] and his son Hanun ruled in his place.

###### v2
David said, "I will show loyal love with Hanun, the son of Nahash, as his father showed loyal love with me." So David sent to console him concerning his father, by the hand of his servants. And the servants of David came to the land of the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"]

###### v3
But the commanders of the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] said to Hanun their master, "_In your opinion_, ^[Literally "In your eyes"] _is_ David honoring your father because he has sent condolences to you? _Is_ it not in order to search the city, to spy it out, and to overthrow it _that_ David sent his servants to you?"

###### v4
Then Hanun took the servants of David, and he shaved off half of their beards and cut their garments off in the middle up to their buttocks, then sent them away.

###### v5
When they told David, he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, "Remain in Jericho until your beards have grown, and then you can return."

###### v6
When the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] saw that they had become odious to David, the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] sent _word_ and hired Aram Beth-Rehob and Aram-Zobah, twenty thousand infantry; and _they also hired_ the king of Maacah, a thousand men, and the men of Tob, twelve thousand men.

###### v7
When David heard, he sent Joab and all the army of mighty warriors.

###### v8
The _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] came out and _drew up a battle formation_ ^[Literally "drew up battle"] at the entrance of the gate, but Aram-Zobah and Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah _were_ alone in the open field.

###### v9
When Joab saw that _the battle was to be fought on two fronts_, ^[Literally "the face of the battle _was_ against him in front and in the rear"] he chose from all _the_ members of the elite troops of Israel and _lined them up for battle_ ^[Literally "arrayed"] to meet Aram.

###### v10
The rest of the army he placed into the hand of his brother Abishai, who _arranged them in battle lines_ ^[Literally "arrayed"] to meet the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"]

###### v11
Then he said, "If Aram _is_ stronger than I _am_, you must become my deliverer; but if the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] _are_ too strong for you, then I will come to rescue you.

###### v12
Be strong, and let us strengthen ourselves for the sake of the people and for the sake of the cities of our God. May Yahweh do _what is_ good in his eyes.

###### v13
Joab and all the people who _were_ with him moved forward into the battle against Aram, and they fled from before him.

###### v14
When the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] saw that Aram had fled, they fled from before Abishai and entered the city. Then Joab returned from _fighting_ against the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] and came to Jerusalem.

###### v15
When the Arameans saw that they _were_ defeated before Israel, they gathered themselves together.

###### v16
Then Hadadezer sent and brought out the Arameans who _were_ beyond the Euphrates, and they came to Helam. Now Shobach, the commander of the army of Hadadezer, _was at their head_. ^[Literally "before the face of them"]

###### v17
David _was_ told, so he gathered all Israel and crossed over the Jordan and came to Helam. Aram _arranged themselves in battle lines_ ^[Literally "arrayed"] to meet David, and they fought with him.

###### v18
And Aram fled before Israel, and David killed from _the_ Arameans seven hundred chariot teams and forty thousand horsemen. He struck down Shobach, the commander of his army, and he died there.

###### v19
When all the kings, the servants of Hadadezer, saw that he had been defeated before Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them, and Aram _was_ afraid to help the _Ammonites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] any longer.