---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 15
---

[[2 Sam-14|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-16|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened afterward that Absalom made himself a chariot with horses and fifty men running before him.

###### v2
Absalom used to rise early in the morning, and he stood _beside_ ^[Literally "on hand of"] the road _at_ the gate; _anyone_ ^[Literally "every man"] who had a legal dispute to bring to the king for judgment Absalom would call to him and say, "_Where are you from?_" ^[Literally "Where from this city are you?"] And he would say, "Your servant _is_ from one of the tribes of Israel."

###### v3
Then Absalom would say to him, "Look, your case _is_ good and right, but for you there is no hearing with the king."

###### v4
Then Absalom would say, "_Oh, that someone would_ ^[Literally "Who will …?"] appoint me as judge in the land, that _anyone_ ^[Literally "every man"] might come to me who had a legal dispute or a case, and I would give him justice."

###### v5
It happened whenever anyone drew near to do obeisance to him, that he would stretch his hand and take hold of him and kiss him.

###### v6
Absalom did like this to all of Israel who came to the king for judgment; so Absalom stole the hearts ^[Hebrew "heart"] of the people of Israel.

###### v7
It happened at the end of four ^[So LXX, followed by Syriac and Vulgate; MT has "forty"] years _that_ Absalom said to the king, "Please let me go and pay my vow which I have made to Yahweh in Hebron,

###### v8
for your servant made a vow while I _was_ staying in Geshur in Aram, saying, '_If Yahweh will indeed let me return_ ^[Literally (following _Qere_) "If returning Yahweh will return me"] to Jerusalem, then I will worship Yahweh.'"

###### v9
Then the king said to him, "Go in peace." So he got up and went to Hebron.

###### v10
Then Absalom sent scouts throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, "When you hear the sound of the trumpet, you shall shout 'Absalom has become king in Hebron!'"

###### v11
Two hundred men from Jerusalem went with Absalom as invited guests, going in their innocence as they did not know anything.

###### v12
Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, the advisor of David, from his city Giloh, while he offered the sacrifices. The conspiracy _grew in strength_, ^[Literally "became strong"] and the people _were_ going and _increasing_ ^[Literally "many"] with Absalom.

###### v13
Then the messenger came to David, saying, "The hearts ^[Hebrew "heart"] of the men of Israel have gone after Absalom."

###### v14
Then David said to all his servants who _were_ with him in Jerusalem, "Get up and let us flee, for there will be no escape for us from Absalom! Hurry to go, otherwise he will come quickly and overtake us! And he will bring disaster on us and evil! He will attack the city with the edge of the sword!"

###### v15
Then the servants of the king said to the king, "According to all that my lord the king chooses, _your servants are ready to act_!" ^[Literally "here are your servants"]

###### v16
The king went out with ^[Hebrew "and"] all his household _following him_, ^[Literally "at his feet"] but the king left behind ten concubines to look after the house.

###### v17
So the king went out with ^[Hebrew "and"] all the people _following him_, ^[Literally "at his feet"] and they stopped _at the last house_. ^[Literally "_at_ the house of the distance"]

###### v18
All his servants _were_ passing _by him_: ^[Literally "on his hand"] all of the Kerethites and all of the Pelethites and all of the Gittites--six hundred men _who had followed him_ ^[Literally "who had come at his feet"] from Gath--passing _before the king_. ^[Literally "on the face of the king"]

###### v19
The king said to Ittai the Gittite, "Why _are_ you also coming with us? Return and stay with the king, for you _are_ a foreigner; moreover, you _are_ an exile. _You _are_ far from your place_. ^[Literally "You as far as your place"]

###### v20
Yesterday when you came and _today_, ^[Literally "the day"] I have caused you to wander by going with us. Now I _am_ going to where I _am_ going; return and let your brothers return. _May_ loyal love and faithfulness _be_ with you."

###### v21
But Ittai answered the king and said, "_As Yahweh lives_ ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] and _my lord the king lives_, ^[Literally "the life of my lord the king"] surely in the place wherever my lord the king shall be, if for death or if for life, surely there your servant will be."

###### v22
Then David said to Ittai, "Go and pass over." So Ittai the Gittite passed over and all his men and all of the little children who _were_ with him.

###### v23
All of the land _was_ weeping _with_ a loud voice as all the people _were_ passing by and the king _was_ crossing through the Wadi Kidron, and all the people _were_ passing _on the road to the wilderness_. ^[Literally "on the face of the road with the wilderness"]

###### v24
Suddenly Zadok _was_ there, and all of the Levites with him, carrying the ark of the covenant of God. They set the ark of God down, and Abiathar offered sacrifices until all the people passed out of the city.

###### v25
The king said to Zadok, "Let the ark of God return to the city. If I find favor in the eyes of Yawheh, he will let me return and let me see him in his dwelling place.

###### v26
But if he says, 'I take no pleasure in you,' then _I am ready_. ^[Literally "here I _am_"] Let him do to me that which _is_ good in his eyes.

###### v27
Then the king said to Zadok the priest, "_Are_ you a seer? Return to the city in peace, _with_ Ahimaaz your son and Jonathan the son of Abiathar, your two sons with you.

###### v28
See, I _am_ waiting at the fords of the wilderness until a word comes from you all to inform me."

###### v29
So Zadok and Abiathar returned the ark of God to Jerusalem and they remained there.

###### v30
Now David _was_ going up on the Ascent of the Olives, _weeping as he went_, ^[Literally "going up and weeping"] with his head covered and going barefoot. All the people who _were_ with him each covered their head _and wept as they went_. ^[Literally "going up and weeping"]

###### v31
Now David _was_ told, "Ahithophel _was_ among the conspirators with Absalom." Then David said, "Please frustrate the counsel of Ahithophel, O Yahweh."

###### v32
It happened that as David _was_ coming up to the summit where he used to worship God, suddenly Hushai the Arkite _was_ there to meet him. His coat _was_ torn and dirt _was_ on his head.

###### v33
David said to him, "If you move on with me, you will be a burden to me,

###### v34
but if you want to return to the city and say to Absalom, 'I _am_ your servant, O king. I used to be a servant of your father, but from then and now I _will be_ your servant,' then you can frustrate the counsel of Ahithophel for me.

###### v35
_Will_ not Zadok and Abiathar the priests _be_ with you there? It shall be that all the words you hear from the house of the king you shall tell Zadok and Abiathar the priests.

###### v36
Look, there with them _are_ their two sons, Ahimaaz of Zadok and Jonathan of Abiathar. You shall send to me _by means of them_ ^[Literally "by their hand"] all the words that you hear."

###### v37
So Hushai the friend of David came to the city _as_ Absalom was entering Jerusalem.