---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 9
---

[[2 Sam-08|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-10|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then David said, "_Is_ there still anyone who _is_ left for the house of Saul that I may show loyal love to him for the sake of Jonathan?"

###### v2
Now Saul's household had a servant whose name _was_ Ziba, so they summoned him to David, and the king asked him, "_Are_ you Ziba?" He said, "_At your service_!" ^[Literally "Your servant"]

###### v3
Then the king said, "But _is_ there still anyone of Saul's household that I may show the loyal love of God with him?" And Ziba said to the king, "There _is_ still a son of Jonathan _who is_ lame in the feet."

###### v4
The king said to him, "Where _is_ he?" And Ziba said to the king, "_He _is_ here_ ^[Literally "Look, he"] in the house of Makir the son of Ammiel in Lo Debar."

###### v5
So King David sent and brought him from the house of Makir the son of Ammiel from Lo Debar.

###### v6
So Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David. And he fell on his face and did obeisance. David said, "Mephibosheth," and he said, "_I am ready to serve you_." ^[Literally "Here _is_ your servant"]

###### v7
Then David said to him, "Don't be afraid, for _I will certainly show_ ^[Literally "doing I will do" or "showing I will show"] loyal love to you for the sake of Jonathan your father, and I will restore to you all the lands of Saul your father. And you shall always eat food at my table."

###### v8
Then he ^[Mephibosheth] did obeisance and said, "What _is_ your servant that you have paid attention to the dead dog like me?"

###### v9
David summoned Ziba the servant of Saul and said to him, "All that _was_ Saul's and all his household I have given to the son of your master.

###### v10
You shall till the land for him, you and your sons and your servants; you shall bring _in the produce_ and it shall be food for the son of your master that he may eat. But Mephibosheth the son of your master may always eat food at my table." (Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty slaves.)

###### v11
Ziba said to the king, "According to all that my master the king commands his servant, so your servant will do." So Mephibosheth _was_ eating at his table as one of the sons of the king.

###### v12
Now Mephibosheth had a young son whose name _was_ Micah, and all of the dwelling of the household of Ziba _became_ servants for Mephibosheth.

###### v13
And Mephibosheth _was_ living in Jerusalem, because he _was_ continually eating at the table of the king, _even though_ he _was_ lame in both of his feet.