---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 14
---

[[2 Sam-13|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-15|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Joab the son of Zeruiah realized that the mind of the king _was_ on Absalom.

###### v2
So Joab sent to Tekoa and took from there a wise woman, and he said to her, "Please pretend to mourn and put on garments of mourning. You should not anoint yourself _with_ oil, and you must act like this woman who has been mourning over the dead for _a long time_. ^[Literally "many days"]

###### v3
Then you must go to the king and speak to him according to this word." _Thus_ Joab put the words in her mouth.

###### v4
So the Tekoite woman spoke to the king, and she fell on her face to the ground and did obeisance. She said, "Help me, O king!"

###### v5
Then the king asked her, "_What do you want_?" ^[Literally "What is for you"] And she said, "Truly I _am_ a widow, and my husband _is_ dead.

###### v6
Your servant had two sons, and they both fought in the open field, and there _was_ no one _to part them_. ^[Literally "to save between them"] One struck the other and killed him.

###### v7
And look, all of the family has risen up against your servant, and they said, 'Give up the one who struck his brother, that we may kill him in exchange for the life of his brother whom he murdered. We will also wipe out the heir,' and so they would put out my embers which remain, by not preserving for my husband a name and a remnant on the face of the earth."

###### v8
Then the king said to the woman, "Go to your house, and I myself will give the command concerning you."

###### v9
The Tekoite woman said to the king, "On me, my lord the king, _is_ the guilt, and on the house of my father, but the king on ^[Hebrew "and"] his throne _is_ innocent."

###### v10
The king said, "_Whoever_ has spoken to you, bring him to me, and he will not touch you again."

###### v11
Then she said, "Please may the king remember Yahweh your God, _to prevent the increase of blood avengers who kill_, ^[Literally "from making numerous the avenger of blood to kill"] _so that they_ not wipe out my son." He said, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] surely not one hair shall fall from your son to the ground."

###### v12
The woman said, "Please let your servant speak a word to my lord the king." And he said, "Speak."

###### v13
The woman said, "But why have you plotted like this against the people of God? By speaking this word, he is guilty not to bring back his banished one.

###### v14
For _we must certainly die_, ^[Literally "dying we must die"] and _we are_ as the waters spilled to the ground which cannot be gathered. God will not take a life but devises plans for a banished person not to be cast out from him.

###### v15
Now I have come to speak this word to my lord the king, because the people made me afraid, and your servant thought, 'I will speak to the king, perhaps the king will grant ^[Hebrew "do/make"] the request of his servant.

###### v16
For the king will listen, to deliver his servant from the hand of the man _who seeks_ to destroy me and my son together from the inheritance of God.'

###### v17
Your servant also thought, 'May the word of my lord the king _bring rest_, ^[Literally "become a rest"] for as an angel of God, so _is_ my lord the king, _to sense what is good and what is bad_.' ^[Literally "to hear the good and the bad"] May Yahweh your God be with you."

###### v18
The king answered and said to the woman, "Please do not withhold from me a thing which I _am_ about to ask you." The woman said, "Please let my lord the king speak."

###### v19
The king asked, "_Was_ the hand of Joab with you in all of this?" The woman answered and said, "_As your soul lives_, ^[Literally "The life of your soul"] my lord the king, surely _one cannot_ go to the right or to the left from all that my lord the king has spoken. Yes, your servant Joab himself commanded me, and he put all of these words in the mouth of your servant.

###### v20
In order _to change the situation_, ^[Literally "to turn the face of the thing"] your servant Joab did this thing. But my lord _has_ wisdom, as the wisdom of an angel of God, to know all that _is_ on the earth."

###### v21
Then the king said to Joab, "Look, please, I will grant this thing. Go and bring back the young man Absalom."

###### v22
Joab fell with his face to the ground and did obeisance. And he blessed the king, and he ^[Hebrew "Joab"] said, "Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your eyes, my lord the king, _in_ that the king has granted the request of his servant."

###### v23
Then Joab got up and went to Geshur and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.

###### v24
The king said, "Let him go over to his house, and he may not see my face." So Absalom went over to his house, and did not see the face of the king.

###### v25
As far as Absalom, there was not a more handsome man in all of Israel to admire so much; from the sole of his foot up to his crown, there was no physical defect on him.

###### v26
When he shaved his head, it would happen _every year_, ^[Literally "from the end of days for the days"] which he did because _it was_ heavy on him, he would shave it off and weigh the hair of his head: two hundred shekels _by the king's weight_. ^[Literally "by the stone of the king"]

###### v27
Three sons _were_ born to Absalom and one daughter, whose name _was_ Tamar. She _was_ a woman beautiful of appearance.

###### v28
Absalom lived in Jerusalem _two full years_, ^[Literally "two years of days"] but he did not see the face of the king.

###### v29
So Absalom sent for Joab, _in order that he_ send him to the king, but he was not willing to go to him. He sent again a second _time_, but he _was_ not willing to go.

###### v30
So he said to his servants, "Look at the tract of land of Joab _next to mine_, ^[Literally "toward my hand"] for he has barley plants there. Go, set it ablaze with fire." So the servants of Absalom set the tract of land ablaze with fire.

###### v31
Then Joab got up and went to Absalom, to the house, and said to him, "Why have your servants set my tract of land ablaze with fire?"

###### v32
Absalom said to Joab, "Look, I have sent to you, saying, 'Come here that I may send you to the king to say, "Why have I come from Geshur? It would be better for me if I _were_ still there."' So then, let me see the face of the king; if there _is_ guilt in me, then let him kill me."

###### v33
So Joab went to the king and he told him. Then he summoned Absalom, and he came to the king, and he bowed down to him with his face to the ground before the king. Then the king kissed Absalom.