---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 4
---

[[2 Sam-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
When the son of Saul heard that Abner had died in Hebron, _his courage failed_ ^[Literally "his hands hung limp"] and all of Israel _was_ horrified.

###### v2
Two of the men, commanders of the raiding bands, were _for_ the son of Saul. The name of one _was_ Baanah, and the name of the other _was_ Recab, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite from the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Benjamin; also, Beeroth _was_ regarded _as belonging_ to Benjamin.

###### v3
The Beerothites fled to Gittaim, and they are resident aliens there until this day.

###### v4
(Now Jonathan the son of Saul had a son who _was_ crippled in the feet. He _was_ five years old when the message of Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel, and his nurse had picked him up and fled. It happened that as she _was_ hurrying away to flee, he fell and became crippled. His name _was_ Mephibosheth.)

###### v5
When the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Recab and Baanah, set out, they came at the heat of the day to the house of Ish-Bosheth while _he _was_ taking a noontime rest_. ^[Literally "he _was_ lying with the bed at noon"]

###### v6
They came as far as the middle of the house _as if_ takers of wheat, and they struck him in the stomach. Then Recab and Baanah his brother escaped.

###### v7
When they had come _into_ the house, he _was_ lying on his couch _in his bedchamber_, ^[Literally "in the room of his lying"] and they attacked him and killed him. Then they _beheaded him_, ^[Literally "they took away his head"] and they took his head and went on the way of the Arabah all night.

###### v8
They brought the head of Ish-Bosheth to David at Hebron, and they said to the king, "Here _is_ the head of Ish-Bosheth, the son of Saul your enemy, who sought your life. Yahweh has given to my lord the king vengeance this day on Saul and on his offspring."

###### v9
Then David answered Recab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and he said to them, "_As Yahweh lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] who redeemed my soul from all trouble,

###### v10
when the _one_ who told me, "Look, Saul _is_ dead," _thought that he _was_ bringing good news_, ^[Literally "and he was as _one_ bringing good news in his eyes"] I seized him and killed him at Ziklag, which _was_ as my giving the news _back_ to him.

###### v11
_How much more_ ^[Literally "Also"] when wicked men kill a righteous man in his house, on his bed! So then, shall I not seek his lifeblood from your hand, so that I may destroy you from the earth?"

###### v12
Then David commanded the young men, and they killed them, and they cut off their hands and their feet, and they hung _them_ at the pool at Hebron, but the head of Ish-Bosheth they took and buried in the grave of Abner at Hebron.