---
aliases:
  - 2 Samuel 5
---

[[2 Sam-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Sam-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
So all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron, and they said, "Here we _are_, _we are your flesh and blood_. ^[Literally "We _are_ your bone and your flesh"]

###### v2
_For some time_, ^[Literally "Both yesterday and three days before"] when Saul was king over us, _you were leading Israel in and out_. ^[Literally "you were going out and coming in, Israel." (So _Kethib_; _Qere_ reads "bringing out and bringing in Israel")] Yahweh had said to you, 'You shall be the shepherd of my people Israel, and you will be the leader over Israel.'"

###### v3
All the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David _made a covenant_ ^[Literally "cut a covenant"] with them at Hebron in the presence of Yahweh; then they anointed David as king over Israel.

###### v4
David _was_ thirty years old when he began to reign; he reigned forty years.

###### v5
He reigned over Judah at Hebron _for_ seven years and six months; and he reigned over all Israel and Judah at Jerusalem _for_ thirty-three years.

###### v6
The king and his men went to Jerusalem, to the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land. They said to David, "You will not come here, for even the blind and the lame can turn you back, saying, 'David cannot come here.'"

###### v7
David captured the fortress of Zion, the city of David.

###### v8
David had said, "On that day _when we attack the Jebusites_, ^[Literally "in all of the striking down the Jebusites"] one must attack the lame and the blind, _those_ who hate the soul of David, by _means of_ the water supply." For thus the blind and the lame would say, "He cannot come into the house."

###### v9
David occupied the fortress and called it the city of David. And David built all around _it_ from the Millo and _inward_. ^[Literally "to the house"]

###### v10
David _continued growing stronger and stronger_, ^[Literally "went going and great"] and Yahweh the God of hosts _was_ with him.

###### v11
So Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, _along with_ cedar trees and _craftsmen skilled in wood and in stone masonry_, ^[Literally "skilled craftsmen of wood and skilled craftsmen of stone wall"] and they built a house for David.

###### v12
David realized that Yahweh had established him as king over Israel and that he had exalted his kingdom because of his people Israel.

###### v13
David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem after he came from Hebron, and more sons and daughters _were_ born to him.

###### v14
These _are_ the names of the ones born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua and Shobab and Nathan and Solomon;

###### v15
Ibhar and Elishua and Nepheg and Japhia;

###### v16
Elishama and Eliada and Eliphelet.

###### v17
When _the_ Philistines heard that they had anointed David as king over Israel, all _the_ Philistines went up to seek David, but David heard and went down to the stronghold. ^[Thought by many to be the stronghold of Masada]

###### v18
Now _the_ Philistines had come, and they spread out in the Valley of Rephaim.

###### v19
And David inquired of Yahweh, saying, "Shall I go up to the Philistines? Will you give them into my hands?" Yahweh said to David, "Go up, for _I will certainly give_ ^[Literally "giving I will give"] _the_ Philistines into your hand."

###### v20
So David came to Baal Perazim and defeated them there; and David said, "Yahweh has burst through my enemies before me like the bursting of water." Therefore he called the name of that place Baal Perazim. ^[Baal Perazim may mean "the master of the bursting through"]

###### v21
They had left their idols there, so David and his men carried them away.

###### v22
_Once again_ ^[Literally "And they again did again"] _the_ Philistines came up and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim.

###### v23
So David inquired of Yahweh, but he said, "You shall not go up. _Rather,_ go around to their rear and come to them from opposite the balsam trees.

###### v24
_And it shall be_ ^[Literally "And it shall happen"] that when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then pay attention, for then Yahweh has gone out before you to strike down the army of _the_ Philistines."

###### v25
So David did thus, just as Yahweh had commanded him, and he struck down _the_ Philistines from Geba _all the way_ ^[Literally "as you go up"] to Gezer.