---
aliases:
  - 1 Timothy 3
---

[[1 Tim-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Tim-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
The saying _is_ trustworthy: if anyone aspires to supervision, he desires a good work.

###### v2
Therefore the overseer must be irreproachable, the husband of one wife, temperate, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, skillful in teaching,

###### v3
not addicted to wine, not a violent person, but gentle, peaceable, not loving money,

###### v4
managing his own household well, having children in submission with all dignity

###### v5
(but if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the church of God?),

###### v6
not newly converted, lest he become conceited _and_ fall into the condemnation of the devil.

###### v7
But _he_ must also have a good testimony from those outside, in order that he may not fall into disgrace and the trap of the devil.

###### v8
Deacons likewise _must be_ dignified, not insincere, not devoted to much wine, not fond of dishonest gain,

###### v9
holding the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience,

###### v10
and these also must be tested first; then let them serve _if they_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are") which is understood as conditional] are above reproach.

###### v11
The wives ^[Or "The women"] likewise _must be_ dignified, not slanderous, temperate, faithful in all _things_.

###### v12
Deacons must be husbands of one wife, managing _their_ children and their own households well.

###### v13
For those who have served well acquire a good standing for themselves, and great boldness in the faith _that is_ in Christ Jesus.

###### v14
I am writing these _things_ to you, hoping to come to you in a short time.

###### v15
But if I am delayed, _I am writing_ ^[The words "I am writing" are not in the Greek text, but are an understood repetition from the previous clause] in order that you may know how one must conduct oneself in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and mainstay ^[Or "basis"; or "support"] of the truth.

###### v16
And most certainly, great is the mystery of godliness:
Who was revealed in the flesh,
was vindicated by ^[Or perhaps "in"] the Spirit,
was seen by angels,
was proclaimed among the Gentiles ^[Or "nations"; the same Greek word can be translated "nations" or "Gentiles" depending on the context],
was believed on in the world,
was taken up in glory.