---
aliases:
  - 1 Timothy 2
---

[[1 Tim-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Tim-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Therefore, I urge first of all _that_ petitions, prayers, requests, _and_ thanksgiving be made on behalf of all people,

###### v2
on behalf of kings and all those who are in authority, in order that we may live a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity.

###### v3
This _is_ good and acceptable before God our Savior,

###### v4
who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth.

###### v5
For _there is_ one God and one mediator between God and human beings, the man Christ Jesus,

###### v6
who gave himself a ransom for all, the testimony at the proper time,

###### v7
for which I was appointed a herald and an apostle--I am speaking the truth, _I am_ not lying--a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.

###### v8
Therefore I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands without anger and dispute.

###### v9
Likewise also the women should adorn themselves in appropriate clothing, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold jewelry or pearls or expensive clothing,

###### v10
but with good deeds which are fitting for women who profess godliness.

###### v11
A woman must learn in quietness with all submission.

###### v12
But I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man, but _to remain quiet_ ^[Literally "to be in quietness"].

###### v13
For Adam was formed first, then Eve,

###### v14
and Adam was not deceived, but the woman, _because she_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("was deceived") which is understood as causal] was deceived, came into transgression.

###### v15
But she will be saved through the bearing of children, if she continues in faith and love and holiness with self-control.