---
aliases:
  - 1 Timothy 6
---

[[1 Tim-05|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
All those who are under the yoke as slaves must regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, lest the name of God and the teaching be slandered.

###### v2
And those who have believing masters must not look down on _them_ because they are brothers, but rather they must serve, because those who benefit by their service are believers and dearly loved.
Teach and encourage these _things_.

###### v3
If anyone teaches other doctrine and does not devote himself to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching _that is_ in accordance with godliness,

###### v4
he is conceited, understanding nothing, but having a morbid interest concerning controversies and disputes about words, from which come envy, strife, slanders, evil suspicions,

###### v5
constant wrangling by people of depraved mind and deprived of the truth, who consider godliness to be a means of gain.

###### v6
But godliness with contentment is a great means of gain.

###### v7
For we have brought nothing into the world, so that neither can we bring anything out.

###### v8
But _if we_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("having") which is understood as conditional] have food and clothing, with these _things_ we will be content.

###### v9
But those who want to be rich fall into temptation and a trap and many foolish and harmful desires, which plunge those people into ruin and destruction.

###### v10
For the love of money is a root of all evil, by which some, _because they_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("desire") which is understood as causal] desire _it_, have gone astray from the faith and have pierced themselves with many pains.

###### v11
But you, O man of God, flee from these _things_, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patient endurance, gentleness.

###### v12
Fight the good fight of the faith; take hold of the eternal life to which you were called, and confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.

###### v13
I command you, in the sight of God who gives life to all _things_ and Christ Jesus who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate,

###### v14
_that_ you observe the commandment without fault, irreproachable until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,

###### v15
which he will make known in his own time, the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of those who reign as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords,

###### v16
the _one who_ alone possesses immortality, who lives _in_ unapproachable light, whom no human being has seen nor is able to see, to whom _be_ honor and eternal power. Amen.

###### v17
Command those _who are_ rich in this present age not to be proud and not to put their hope in the uncertainty of riches, but in God, who provides us all _things_ richly for enjoyment,

###### v18
to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous, sharing freely,

###### v19
storing up for themselves a good foundation for the future, in order that they may take hold of _what is_ truly life.

###### v20
O Timothy, guard what has been entrusted _to you_. Turn away from pointless empty talk and contradictions of _what is_ falsely called knowledge,

###### v21
which some, _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("professing") which is understood as means] professing _it_, have deviated concerning the faith. Grace _be_ with you _all_.