---
aliases:
  - 1 Timothy 5
---

[[1 Tim-04|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Tim-06|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Do not rebuke an older man, but appeal to _him_ as a father, younger men as brothers,

###### v2
older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, with all purity.

###### v3
Honor widows _who are_ truly widows.

###### v4
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, they must learn to show profound respect for their own household first, and to pay back recompense to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God.

###### v5
But the widow _who is one_ truly, and is left alone, has put her hope in God and continues in her petitions and prayers night and day.

###### v6
But the one who lives for sensual pleasure is dead _even though she_ ^[Here "_even though_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("lives") which is understood as concessive] lives.

###### v7
And command these _things_, in order that they may be irreproachable.

###### v8
But if someone does not provide for his own _relatives_, and especially the members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.

###### v9
Let a widow be put on the list _if she_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("is") which is understood as conditional] is not less than sixty years _old_, the wife of one husband,

###### v10
being well-attested by good works, if she has brought up children, if she has shown hospitality, if she has washed the feet of the saints, if she has helped those who are oppressed, if she has devoted herself to every good work.

###### v11
But refuse younger widows, for whenever their physical desires lead them away from Christ, they want to marry,

###### v12
_thus_ incurring condemnation because they have broken their former pledge.

###### v13
And at the same time also, going around from house to house, they learn _to be_ idle, and not only idle, but also gossipy and busybodies, saying the things _that are_ not necessary.

###### v14
Therefore I want younger _widows_ to marry, to bear children, to manage a household, to give the adversary no opportunity for reproach.

###### v15
For already some have turned away _and followed_ after Satan.

###### v16
If any believing woman has widows, she must help them, and the church must not be burdened, in order that it may help those _who are_ truly widows.

###### v17
The elders who lead well must be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor by speaking and teaching.

###### v18
For the scripture says, "You must not muzzle an ox _while it_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("threshing") which is understood as temporal] is threshing," ^[A quotation from [[Deut-25#v4|Deut 25:4]]] and "The worker _is_ worthy of his wages." ^[A quotation from [[Luke-10#v7|Luke 10:7]]]

###### v19
Do not accept an accusation against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses.

###### v20
Reprove those who sin in the presence of all, in order that the rest also may experience fear.

###### v21
I testify solemnly before God and Christ Jesus and the elect angels that you observe these _things_ without prejudice, doing nothing according to partiality.

###### v22
Lay hands on no one hastily, and do not participate in the sins of others. Keep yourself pure.

###### v23
(No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for your stomach and your frequent illnesses.)

###### v24
The sins of some people are evident, preceding _them_ to judgment, but for some also they follow after _them_.

###### v25
Likewise also good works _are_ evident, and those considered otherwise are not able to be hidden.