---
aliases:
  - 1 Timothy 4
---

[[1 Tim-03|Previous Chapter]] | [[1 Tim-05|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now the Spirit explicitly says that in the last times some will depart from the faith, paying attention to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons,

###### v2
by the hypocrisy of liars, who are seared in their own conscience,

###### v3
who forbid marrying _and insist on_ abstaining from foods that God created for sharing in with thankfulness by those who believe and who know the truth,

###### v4
because everything created by God _is_ good and nothing _is to be_ rejected _if it is_ ^[Here "_if_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("received") which is understood as conditional] received with thankfulness,

###### v5
for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer.

###### v6
_By_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("teaching") which is understood as means] teaching these _things_ to the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, trained in the words of the faith and of the good teaching that you have followed faithfully.

###### v7
But reject those _worthless myths told by elderly women_ ^[Literally "worthless and characteristic of an elderly woman myths"], and train yourself for godliness.

###### v8
For the training of the body is _somewhat_ ^[Literally "for a little"] profitable, but godliness is profitable for everything, _because it_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("holds") which is understood as causal] holds promise for the present life and for the _life_ to come.

###### v9
The statement _is_ trustworthy and deserving of complete acceptance.

###### v10
For to this _end_ we labor and suffer reproach, ^[Some manuscripts have "and strive"] because we have put our hope in _the_ living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of believers.

###### v11
Command these _things_ and teach _them_.

###### v12
Let no one look down on your youth, but be an example for the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.

###### v13
Until I come, pay attention to the _public_ reading, ^[Many English translations supply "of scripture" here to clarify what is to be read aloud] to exhortation, to teaching.

###### v14
Do not neglect the gift _that is_ in you, that was granted to you through prophecy with the laying on of hands by the council of elders.

###### v15
Practice these _things_. Be _diligent_ ^[Literally "be in these _things_," though most English versions supply a predicate here] in these _things_, in order that your progress may be evident to everyone.

###### v16
Fix _your_ attention on yourself and on your teaching. Continue in them, for _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("doing") which is understood as means] doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you.