---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 25
---

[[2 Kgs-24|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened that in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth of the month, Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came, he and his army, against Jerusalem. He encamped against it and built siege works against it all around.

###### v2
So the city came under siege until the eleventh year of the king.

###### v3
In the ninth month, the famine became severe in the city, and there was no food for the people of the land.

###### v4
Then the city was breached, and all of the men of war _entered_ by night by way of the gate between the wall which was by the garden of the king, and the Chaldeans _were_ against the city all around, so he ^[That is, Zedekiah] left by the way of the Arabah.

###### v5
But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king, and they overtook him in the Arabah of Jericho, and all of his army scattered from him.

###### v6
So they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and _they passed sentence on him_. ^[Literally "they spoke justice with him"]

###### v7
They slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes; then they blinded the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him in bronze fetters and brought him _to_ Babylon.

###### v8
In the fifth month, on the seventh of the month, that is, the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, Nebuzaradan, a commander of the imperial guard, a servant of the king of Babylon, came _to_ Jerusalem.

###### v9
He burned the temple of Yahweh, the palace of the king, and all of the houses of Jerusalem; every large house he burned with fire.

###### v10
He and all the army of _the_ Chaldeans who _were with_ the imperial guard tore down the wall of Jerusalem all around.

###### v11
The remainder of the people left in the city, the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, and the remainder of the multitude, Nebuzaradan the commander of the imperial guard deported.

###### v12
But the poor of the land the commander of the imperial guard left for the vineyards and for tilling.

###### v13
The bronze pillars which _were in_ the temple ^[Or "house"] of Yahweh, the water carts, and the bronze sea that was in the temple of Yahweh, the Chaldeans broke into pieces and carried their bronze to Babylon.

###### v14
The pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the dishes, and the vessels of bronze with which they served there, they took.

###### v15
The firepans and the basins, whatever was gold, the commander of the imperial guard took _for_ the gold and whatever was silver, _for_ the silver.

###### v16
The two pillars, the one sea, and the water cart which Solomon had made for the temple of Yahweh, there was no weighing to the bronze of all of these vessels.

###### v17
The height of the one pillar _was_ eighteen cubits; a bronze capital was on it, with the height of the capital _being_ three cubits. The latticework and pomegranates on the capital all around were bronze, and likewise on the latticework for the second pillar.

###### v18
Then the commander of the imperial guard took Seraiah the chief priest, Zephaniah the second priest, and three of the threshold keepers.

###### v19
From the city he took one court official who _was_ chief officer over the men of war, five men _from the king's council_ ^[Literally "from those who saw the face of the king"] who were found in the city, the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men from the people of the land being found in the city.

###### v20
Nebuzaradan commander of the imperial guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.

###### v21
Then the king of Babylon struck them down and killed them at Riblah in the land of Hamath; thus Judah was removed from its land.

###### v22
Now _as far as_ the people left in Judah whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon left behind, he appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan over them.

###### v23
When all of the commanders of the troops heard, they and the men, that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, _even_ Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, Johanan the son of Kareah, Seriah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.

###### v24
Gedaliah swore to them and to their men, and he said to them, "You must not be afraid because of the Chaldeans. Settle in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and may it go well with you."

###### v25
But it happened in the seventh month that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah the son of Elishama from the offspring of the kingship came, and ten men with him, and they struck down Gedaliah so that he died with the Judeans and with the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah.

###### v26
Then all the people, from youngest to oldest, and the commanders of the troops, went _to_ Egypt, for they were afraid of the presence of the Chaldeans.

###### v27
It happened in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month on the twenty-seventh of the month, lifted Evil-Merodach king of Babylon in the year that he became king, the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah from the house of imprisonment.

###### v28
He spoke _kindly_ ^[Literally "good things"] to him, and he gave him a better seat than the seat of the kings who _were_ with him in Babylon.

###### v29
So he changed the clothes of his imprisonment, and he ate food continually in his presence all the days of his life.

###### v30
His allowance was continually given to him from the king, _a portion every day_ ^[Literally "a thing of day on his day"] all the days of his life.