---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 14
---

[[2 Kgs-13|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-15|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the second year of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Jehoash king of Judah began to reign.

###### v2
He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem; and the name of his mother _was_ Jehoaddin from Jerusalem.

###### v3
He did right in the eyes of Yahweh, only not as David his ancestor; ^[Or "father"] as all which Jehoash his father had done, he did.

###### v4
Only the high places were not removed; the people _were_ still sacrificing and offering incense on the high places.

###### v5
It happened that when the kingdom was firmly in his hand, he killed his servants who had killed his father the king.

###### v6
But the sons of the killers he did not kill, as it is written in the scroll of the law of Moses which Yahweh had commanded, saying, "Fathers should not be killed because of children, and children should not be killed because of fathers; but a man should die because of his _own_ sin."

###### v7
He also killed ten thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt, and he seized Sela in the battle, and he called its name Jokteel, until this day.

###### v8
Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu king of Israel, saying, "Come let us meet _face-to-face_." ^[Literally "faces"]

###### v9
So Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah, saying, "The thornbush which is in Lebanon sent to the cedar which is in Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son as wife,' but an animal of the field which _is_ in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thornbush.

###### v10
You have indeed defeated Edom and your heart is lifted up; enjoy the honor and stay home. Why should you provoke trouble so that you fall and Judah with you?"

###### v11
But Amaziah would not listen, so Jehoash king of Israel went up and they met face-to-face, he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Beth-Shemesh which belongs to Judah.

###### v12
Judah was defeated before Israel and they fled, each to this tent.

###### v13
Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash, the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-Shemesh. Then they came _to_ Jerusalem, and he broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Gate of Ephraim up to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits!

###### v14
He also took all of the gold and silver and all the vessels found _in_ the temple of Yahweh and in the treasury rooms of the palace of the king, as well as the _hostages_; ^[Literally "sons of the pledges"] then he returned to Samaria.

###### v15
Now the remainder of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his powerful _deeds_, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, _are_ they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v16
Then Jehoash slept with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel, and Jeroboam his son reigned in his place.

###### v17
Amaziah the son of Jehoash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz king of Israel.

###### v18
The remainder of the acts of Amaziah, _are_ they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v19
They conspired against him in Jerusalem, so he fled to Lachish. But they sent _men_ after him to Lachish, and they killed him there.

###### v20
Then they carried him on the horses, and he was buried with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of David.

###### v21
All of the people of Judah took sixteen-year-old Azariah and made him king in place of this father Amaziah.

###### v22
He rebuilt Elath and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his ancestors. ^[Or "fathers"]

###### v23
In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Jehoash king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Jehoash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria, _reigning_ forty-one years.

###### v24
But he did evil in the eyes of Yahweh; he did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat which he caused Israel to sin.

###### v25
He restored the boundary of Israel from Lebo-Hamath up to the sea of the Arabah, according to the word of Yahweh which he spoke by the hand of his servant Jonah the son of Amittai the prophet, who was from Gath-Hepher.

###### v26
For Yahweh saw that the misery of Israel was very bitter, whether bond or free, but there was no helper for Israel.

###### v27
Yahweh did not decree to blot out the name of Israel from under the heavens, so he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Jehoash.

###### v28
Now the remainder of the acts of Jeroboam, all that he did, his powerful _deeds_, how he fought, and how he restored Damascus and Hamath of Judah to Israel, _are_ they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v29
So Jeroboam slept with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] the kings of Israel, and his son Zechariah became king in his place.