---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 7
---

[[2 Kgs-06|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-08|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Elisha said, "Hear the word of Yahweh: 'Thus says Yahweh, "At this time tomorrow a seah of wheat bread flour _will sell_ for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria.'"

###### v2
Then the officer _on whom the king relied_ ^[Literally "whom the king was leaning on his hand"] answered the man of God and said, "Look, _even if_ Yahweh _is_ making windows in heaven, could this thing happen?" And he said, "Look, you _will be_ seeing _it_ with your eyes, but you shall not eat from it there."

###### v3
Now four men who had a skin disease were _at_ the entrance of the gate, and they said _to each other_, ^[Literally "each to his friend"] "Why _are_ we sitting here until we die?

###### v4
If we say, 'Let us go _into_ the city,' the famine _is_ in the city, and we shall die there; but if we sit here, we shall die. So then, come, let us fall into the camp of _the_ Arameans. If they let us live, we shall live; but if they kill us, then we shall die."

###### v5
So they got up at dusk to go to the camp of _the_ Arameans. They went up to the edge of the camp of _the_ Arameans, and look, there was no man there!

###### v6
Now the Lord had caused the camp of _the_ Arameans to hear the sound of chariots, the sound of horses, and the sound of a great army. So they said _to one another_, ^[Literally "each to his brother"] "Look, the king of Israel has hired the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Egypt to come against us!"

###### v7
So they got up and fled at dusk and left their tents, their horses, their donkeys, and the camp as it was, and they fled for their lives.

###### v8
When these who had the skin disease came to the edge of the camp, they went into a certain tent and they ate, drank, and took from there silver and gold and clothes. Then they went and hid _them_, then returned and came to another tent, and they took from there and went and hid _them_.

###### v9
Then they said _to one another_, ^[Literally "each to his friend"] "We _are_ not doing right. This day is a day of good news! If we _are_ silent and wait until the light of morning, they will find us and _we will be punished_. ^[Literally "guiltiness"] So then, come, let us go and tell the house of the king."

###### v10
When they came, they called to the gatekeepers of the city and told them, saying, "We came to the camp of _the_ Arameans, and behold, there was no man or the voice of a man there! Only the horses and the donkeys were tied up, and the tents _were left_ as they _were_."

###### v11
Then the gatekeepers called and told _it_ inside the house of the king.

###### v12
The king got up in the night and said to his servants, "Please let me tell you what _the_ Arameans have done to us. _The_ Arameans know that we _are_ hungry, so they went out from the camp to hide in the field, saying, 'When they go out from the city, we shall seize them alive and go into the city.'"

###### v13
Then one of his servants replied and said, "Please let them take five of the remaining horses which remain in _the city_; behold, they _are_ like all of the multitude of Israel that remain in it; they are like all the multitude of Israel who have perished. Let us send and see."

###### v14
So he took two charioteer horsemen, and the king sent after the camp of _the_ Arameans, saying, "Go, find out,"

###### v15
and they went after them to the Jordan. Look, all of the way _was_ littered with clothes and equipment which _the_ Arameans had thrown away in their haste. Then the messengers returned and told the king.

###### v16
So the people went out and plundered the camp of _the_ Arameans. A seah of wheat flour _went_ for a shekel and two seahs of barley _went_ for a shekel according to the word of Yahweh.

###### v17
Then the king appointed the officer he was depending on over the gate, but the people trampled him and he died, according to that which the man of God had said which he spoke when the king came down to him.

###### v18
It happened as the man of God spoke to the king, saying, "Two seahs of barley _shall be sold_ for a shekel and a seah of wheat flour for a shekel at this time tomorrow in the gate of Samaria."

###### v19
Then the officer had replied to the man of God and said, "Look, even if Yahweh is opening the windows in heaven, could this thing happen?" And he had said, "Look you _are about to_ see it with your eyes, but you will not eat from it."

###### v20
So it had happened to him; the people trampled him in the gate and he died.