---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 17
---

[[2 Kgs-16|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-18|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the twelfth year of Ahaz the king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, _reigning_ nine years.

###### v2
He did evil in the eyes of Yahweh, only not as the kings of Israel who were before him.

###### v3
Shalmaneser the king of Assyria ^[This would have been Shalmaneser V of Assyria (ruled ca. 727–722 bc)] came up against him, and Hoshea became his vassal and paid tribute to him.

###### v4
But the king of Assyria found treachery in Hoshea, for he had sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and he did not offer tribute to the king of Assyria as _he had_ year after year; so the king of Assyria arrested him, and confined him _in_ a house of imprisonment.

###### v5
So the king of Assyria went up in all the land, then he went up _to_ Samaria and besieged it _for_ three years.

###### v6
In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria captured Samaria and deported Israel to Assyria. He placed them in Halah, in Habor, _in_ the river _regions_ of Gozan, and _in_ the cities of the Medes.

###### v7
Now _this_ happened because the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] had sinned against Yahweh their God when he brought them up from the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh the king of Egypt and they feared other gods.

###### v8
They walked in the statutes of the nations whom Yahweh had driven out from before the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] which the kings of Israel had introduced.

###### v9
The _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] secretly did things which _were_ not right, against Yahweh their God; they built high places for themselves in all their towns, from the watchtower up to the fortified city.

###### v10
They set up for themselves stone pillars and poles of Asherah worship on every high hill and under every green tree.

###### v11
They burned incense there on all the high places, like the nations which Yahweh deported before them, and they did evil things to provoke Yahweh.

###### v12
They served idols which Yahweh had said to them, "You shall not do this thing!"

###### v13
Yahweh warned Israel and Judah by the hand of his every prophet, _with_ every seer saying, "Turn from all of your evil ways, and keep my commandments and my ordinances, according to all the law which I commanded your ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] which I sent to you by the hand of my servants the prophets."

###### v14
But they did not listen and they stiffened their necks, like the necks of their ancestors ^[Or "fathers] who did not believe in Yahweh their God.

###### v15
They rejected his statutes, his covenant which he _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] with their ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and his warnings which he gave to them; and they went after the idols, became vain, and _went_ after all the nations which _were_ all around them, which Yahweh had commanded them not to do as they _did_.

###### v16
They abandoned all the commands of Yahweh their God and made for themselves two molten calf-shaped idols; they made a pole of Asherah worship and bowed down to the army of the heavens and served Baal.

###### v17
They made their sons and their daughters pass through the fire, they practiced divination and read omens, and they sold themselves to do evil in the eyes of Yahweh to provoke him.

###### v18
So Yahweh was very angry with Israel and he removed them from his presence; none remained except the tribe of Judah alone.

###### v19
Even Judah did not keep the commands of Yahweh their God, and they walked in the customs of Israel which they introduced,

###### v20
so Yahweh rejected all the offspring of Israel and punished them, and he gave them into the hand of the plunderers until he banished them from his presence.

###### v21
For he had torn Israel from the house of David, and they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king, but Jeroboam detached Israel from following Yahweh, and he made them sin a great sin.

###### v22
The _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he committed, and they did not depart from it,

###### v23
until Yahweh removed Israel from his presence as he had foretold by the hand of all his servants, the prophets. And so he deported Israel from upon his land to Assyria until this day.

###### v24
The king of Assyria brought from Babylonia, from Cush, from Arva, from Hamath, and Sepharvaim, and he settled _them_ in the cities of Samaria in place of the _Israelites_, ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] so they took possession of Samaria and lived in her cities.

###### v25
It happened that when they began living there, they did not fear Yahweh, so Yahweh sent lions among them, and they were killing them. ^[Leviticus 26:22 warns that non-belief will result in attacks from wild animals.]

###### v26
So they said to the king of Assyria, "The nations whom you deported and settled in the cities of Samaria do not know the customs of the God of the land, so he sent lions among them, and now they are killing them because they do not know the customs of the God of the land."

###### v27
Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, "Release one of the priests whom you deported from there, and let him go and settle there. Let him teach them the customs of the God of the land."

###### v28
So one of the priests went, whom they had deported from Samaria, and he settled in Bethel and was teaching them how they should fear Yahweh.

###### v29
Yet every nation was making their ^[Hebrew "his"] gods, and they put them in the shrine of the high places that the Samaritans had made, every nation in their cities in which they _were_ living.

###### v30
The men of Babylonia made Succoth Benoth; the men of Cush made Nergal; the men of Hamath made Ashima.

###### v31
The Arvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; the Sepharvites were burning their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech the gods of Sepharvaim.

###### v32
Those who were fearing Yahweh made priests of the high places _from among themselves_, ^[Literally "for them from their ends"] and they were sacrificing for them in the shrines of the high places.

###### v33
Yahweh they were fearing, but their gods they were serving, according to the customs of the nations from which they were deported.

###### v34
Until this day they _are_ doing according to their former customs; none of them _are_ fearing Yahweh, and none of them _are_ doing according to their statutes, to their decisions, to the law, or to the commands that Yahweh commanded the descendants ^[Or "sons"] of Jacob _to_ which he had given the name Israel.

###### v35
Yahweh had _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] a covenant with them and commanded them, "You shall not fear other gods, nor shall you bow down to them, nor shall you serve them, nor shall you sacrifice to them.

###### v36
Rather, Yahweh, who brought you out from the land of Egypt with great strength and with an outstretched arm--him you shall fear, and to him you shall bow down, and to him you shall sacrifice.

###### v37
The statutes, the decisions, the law, and the commands that he wrote to you, you shall observe to do always, and you shall not fear other gods.

###### v38
The covenant that I have _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] with you, you shall not forget, and you shall not fear other gods.

###### v39
But Yahweh your God you shall fear, and he will deliver you from the hand of all of your enemies."

###### v40
They did not listen but kept on doing according to their former customs.

###### v41
So these nations were fearing Yahweh, but they were serving their idols, as were their children and their children's children; as their ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] did, they _are_ doing until this day.