---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 13
---

[[2 Kgs-12|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-14|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu became king over Israel in Samaria, _reigning_ seventeen years.

###### v2
But he did evil in the eyes of Yahweh, and he went after the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat with which he had caused Israel to sin, and he did not depart from it.

###### v3
So the _anger of Yahweh was kindled_ ^[Literally "the nose of Yahweh became hot"] against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of Hazael king of Aram and into the hand of Ben-Hadad the son of Hazael _repeatedly_. ^[Literally "all the days"]

###### v4
Then Jehoahaz entreated Yahweh, and Yahweh listened to him, for he saw the oppression of Israel, because the king of Aram oppressed them.

###### v5
Yahweh gave Israel a savior, and they went out from under the hand of Aram. So the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] lived in their tents as _formerly_. ^[Literally "as yesterday and the day before"]

###### v6
Yet they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam which he caused Israel to sin, but walked in it; and also, the pole of the Asherah worship was _still_ standing in Samaria.

###### v7
For there was no army left over for Jehoahaz except for fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and ten thousand infantry, for the king of Aram had destroyed them and made them as the dust at threshing.

###### v8
Now the remainder of the acts of Jehoahaz and all that he did and his powerful _deeds, are_ they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v9
Then Jehoahaz slept with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him in Samaria, and Jehoash his son became king in his place.

###### v10
In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz became king over Israel in Samaria, _reigning_ sixteen years.

###### v11
He did evil in the eyes of Yahweh; he did not depart from all of the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat which he caused Israel to sin, _but_ walked in it.

###### v12
The remainder of the acts of Joash ^[That is, the king of Israel rather than the king of Judah; "Jehoash" and "Joash" are variant spellings of one another] and all that he did, his powerful _deeds_, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, _are_ they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v13
Then Joash slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and Jeroboam sat on his throne. Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.

###### v14
Elisha became ill with the illness with which he would die, so Jehoash king of Israel went down to him and wept before him, and said, "My father, my father; the chariot of Israel and its horsemen!"

###### v15
Elisha said to him, "Take a bow and arrows," so he took him a bow and arrows.

###### v16
He said to the king of Israel, "_Lay your hand on the bow_," ^[Literally "Let your hand climb upon the bow"] so he lay hold _of it_; then Elisha put his hand on the hands of the king.

###### v17
Then he said, "Open the window to the east," so he opened _it_. Elisha said, "Shoot," and he shot. Then he said, "An arrow of victory for Yahweh, and an arrow of victory against Aram; you shall fight the Arameans in Aphek until finishing _them_."

###### v18
Then he said, "Take the arrows," so he took _them_. He said to the king of Israel, "Strike the ground," so he struck three times and stopped.

###### v19
_Yet_ the man of God became angry against him and said, "For striking five or six times, then you would have defeated Aram until finishing _them_, but now you will defeat Aram _only_ three times."

###### v20
Elisha died and they buried him. Now the raiding parties of Moab came _in the spring_. ^[Literally "coming year"]

###### v21
And it happened that they _were_ burying a man; suddenly they saw the marauding band, so they threw the man in the grave of Elisha. _As he_ went _in_, the man touched the bones of Elisha, and became alive and got up on his feet!

###### v22
Hazael king of Aram oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.

###### v23
But Yahweh had mercy on them and showed compassion to them and turned to them because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He was not willing to destroy them nor cast them from his presence up to now.

###### v24
When Hazael king of Aram died, his son Ben-Hadad became king in his place.

###### v25
Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz returned and took the cities from the hand of Ben-Hadad the son of Hazael which he had taken from the hand of Jehoahaz his father in the war. Three times Jehoash defeated him and recovered the towns of Israel.