---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 18
---

[[2 Kgs-17|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-19|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
It happened in the third year of Hoshea the son of Elah king of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah became king.

###### v2
He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Abi, the daughter of Zechariah.

###### v3
He did right in the eyes of Yahweh according to all that David his ancestor ^[Or "father"] had done.

###### v4
He removed the high places, and he smashed the stone pillars; he cut down the poles of Asherah worship and demolished the bronze serpent which Moses had made, for up to those days the _Israelites_ ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] were offering incense to it and called it Nehushtan.

###### v5
He trusted in Yahweh the God of Israel; there was no one like him, before or after, among all the kings of Judah.

###### v6
He held on to Yahweh; he did not depart from following him, and he kept his commands that Yahweh had commanded Moses.

###### v7
Yahweh was with him; everywhere he went, he succeeded. He rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him.

###### v8
He attacked _the_ Philistines up to Gaza and its territory from the watchtower up to the fortified city.

###### v9
It happened in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, that _is,_ the seventh year of Hoshea the son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came against Samaria and laid siege against her.

###### v10
At the end of three years, he captured it in the sixth year of Hezekiah, that _is,_ the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel; Samaria was captured.

###### v11
Then the king of Assyria deported Israel to Assyria and settled them in Halah, in Habor, _in_ the river _regions_ of Gozan, and _in_ the cities of the Medes,

###### v12
because they did not listen to the voice of Yahweh their God, and they transgressed his covenant; all that he had commanded Moses, the servant of Yahweh, they did not listen _to_ nor did they obey.

###### v13
In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all of the fortified cities of Judah and captured them.

###### v14
So Hezekiah king of Judah sent _word_ to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, "I have done wrong. Withdraw from me. What you impose on me I will bear." So the king of Assyria imposed on Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.

###### v15
Then Hezekiah gave all of the silver found _in_ the temple of Yahweh and in the storerooms of the house of the king.

###### v16
At that time, Hezekiah cut off the doors of the temple of Yahweh and the doorposts which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and he gave them to the king of Assyria.

###### v17
So the king of Assyria sent the commander in chief, the chief eunuch, and the _chief advisor_ ^[Traditionally "Rabshekah"] from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem with a heavy army. They went up and came _to_ Jerusalem, then they went up and came and stood at the aqueduct of the upper pool which is on the main road of the _washer's_ ^[Or "fuller's"] field.

###### v18
Then they called to the king, so Eliakim the son of Hilkiah who _was_ over the palace, Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, came out to them.

###### v19
Then the chief advisor said to them, "Please say to Hezekiah: 'Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: "What _is_ this confidence that you trust?

###### v20
You think only a word of lips, '_I have_ advice and power for the war.' Now, on whom do you trust that you have rebelled against me?

###### v21
Now, look! You _rely_ ^[Literally "trust for yourself"] on the staff of this broken reed, on Egypt, which _when_ a man leans on it, it goes into his hand and pierces it! So _is_ Pharaoh the king of Egypt for all who are trusting on him!

###### v22
But if you say to me, 'On Yahweh our God we trust,' _is_ it not he whose high places and altars Hezekiah removed, and he had said to Judah and to Jerusalem, 'In the presence of this altar you shall bow down _only_ in Jerusalem?'

###### v23
So then, please make a wager with my lord, with the king of Assyria, and I will give to you a thousand horses _if you are able on your part to put riders on them._ ^[Literally "if you are able to give for yourself riders upon them"]

###### v24
How _can you repulse a single captain among the least of the servants of my master_ ^[Literally "can you return the face of the governor one of the servants of my master"]? _Yet_ you rely for yourself on Egypt for chariots and horsemen!

###### v25
Have I now come up against this place without Yahweh to destroy it? Yahweh has said to me, 'Go up against this land and destroy it!'"'"

###### v26
Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah and Shebna and Joah said to the chief commander, "Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we _are_ understanding, but you must not speak Judean with us in the ears of the people who _are_ on the wall."

###### v27
The chief commander said to them, "Is it _solely_ to your master and to you my master has sent me to speak these words? _Is_ it not for the men who sit on the wall to eat their feces and to drink their urine with you?"

###### v28
Then the chief commander stood and called with a great voice in Judean, and he spoke and said, "Hear the word of the king, the great king of Assyria!

###### v29
Thus says the king, 'Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to rescue you from my ^[Hebrew "his"] hand.

###### v30
Do not let Hezekiah _make you_ trust in Yahweh, saying, "Certainly Yahweh will rescue us, and this city shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria!"'

###### v31
Do not listen to Hezekiah; for thus says the king of Assyria, 'Make with me a treaty of peace and come out to me that each _may_ eat _from_ his vine and each _from_ his fig tree, and each _may_ drink water _from_ his cistern!

###### v32
Until I come and take you to a land like your land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive trees, olive oil, and honey, that _you may_ live and not die! You must not listen to Hezekiah, for he has misled you _by_ saying, "Yahweh will deliver us!"

###### v33
Did the gods of each of the nations ever rescue the land from the hand of the king of Assyria?

###### v34
Where _are_ the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where _are_ the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah? For did they rescue Samaria from my hand?

###### v35
Who among all of the gods of the countries have rescued their countries from my hand that Yahweh should rescue Jerusalem from my hand?'"

###### v36
The people were silent, and they did not answer him a word, for the command of that king was saying, "You shall not answer him."

###### v37
Eliakim the son of Hilkiah who was over the palace, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder came to Hezekiah _with_ torn clothes, and they told him the words of the chief commander.