---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 12
---

[[2 Kgs-11|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-13|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash became king. He reigned in Jerusalem forty years, and the name of his mother _was_ Zibiah from Beersheba.

###### v2
Jehoash did right in the eyes of Yahweh all of his days, because Jehoiada the priest instructed him.

###### v3
Only the high places were not removed; the people _were_ still making sacrifices and offering incense on the high places.

###### v4
Jehoash said to the priests, "All of the money for the sacred things that is brought to the temple of Yahweh, _the money taxed at its proper value for each person_ ^[Literally "money passing over a man, the money of persons his proper value"] _and_ all of the money which comes upon the heart of a man to bring to the temple of Yahweh,

###### v5
let the priests take for themselves, each from his treasurers, and let them repair the breach of the temple for every place where damage is found."

###### v6
It happened in the twenty-third year of King Jehoash that the priests had not repaired the damage in the temple.

###### v7
So King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the priests, and he said to them, "Why are you not repairing the damage in the temple? Now, you shall not take money from your treasurers for the damage in the temple. You must provide it."

###### v8
So the priests agreed not to take money from the people and not to repair the damage to the temple.

###### v9
Then Jehoiada the priest took a certain chest and bored a hole in its lid, and he put it beside the altar to the right as a man enters into the temple of Yahweh; then the priests who were keepers of the threshold would put there all of the money brought into the temple.

###### v10
It happened that when they saw a great deal of money in the chest, the secretary of the king and the high priest would come up, put the money in bags, then count the money found in the temple of Yahweh.

###### v11
They placed the money, _which was_ weighed out, into the hands of the workers who were appointed over the temple of Yahweh, and they paid _it to_ the skilled craftsmen of wood and _to_ the builders working on the temple of Yahweh

###### v12
and to the masons and the stonecutters, to buy timber and stones for hewing, in order to repair the damage of the temple of Yahweh, and for all who went to the temple to repair it.

###### v13
Only, for the temple of Yahweh, there were not any silver basins, snuffers, bowls for drinking wine, trumpets, or any vessel of gold or silver from the money being brought _to_ the temple of Yahweh.

###### v14
For they gave that to all the workers, and they repaired the temple ^[Or "house"] of Yahweh with it.

###### v15
They did not _have to_ settle accounts with the men into whose hands they placed the money to give to the workers, for they _were_ dealing honestly.

###### v16
_The_ money of _the_ guilt offering and _the_ money of _the_ sin offering was not brought into the temple ^[Or "house"] of Yahweh, but were _each_ for the priests.

###### v17
At that time, Hazael king of Aram went up and fought against Gath and captured it; then Hazael set his face to go up against Jerusalem.

###### v18
Jehoash king of Judah took all of the holy objects that Jehoshaphat, Joram, and Ahaziah his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] the kings of Judah, had devoted, and all his holy objects and all of the gold found in the treasuries of the temple of Yahweh, and _in_ the palace of the king, and he sent them to Hazael king of Aram, so that he went up from Jerusalem.

###### v19
Now the remainder of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v20
Then his servants arose and conspired and killed Joash _in_ the house of the Millo as he was going down toward Silla.

###### v21
Jozabad ^[A number of Hebrew manuscripts read "Jozakar" here, a reading followed by many English versions. The Hebrew letters for K and B are very similar, as are the letters for R and D. Scribal error may account for the variant reading.] the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, struck him and killed him, so they buried him with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of David. Then Amaziah his son became king in his place.