---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 11
---

[[2 Kgs-10|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-12|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, so she prepared to destroy all of the offspring of the royal family.

###### v2
But Jehosheba the daughter of King Joram and sister of Ahaziah took Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, and she stole him from among the sons of the king who were being put to death, _putting_ him and his nurse in the inner bedroom. So they hid him from the presence of Athaliah, and he was not killed.

###### v3
He remained with her in the temple of Yahweh, hidden for six years _while_ Athaliah was reigning over the land.

###### v4
But in the seventh year Jehoiada sent and took the commanders of the hundreds of the Carites and the runners, and he brought them to himself to the temple of Yahweh. Then he _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] a covenant with them and made them swear in the house of Yahweh and showed them the son of the king.

###### v5
He commanded them, saying, "This _is_ the thing which you must do: one third of you _who go off duty on the Sabbath_, ^[Literally "who go on the Sabbath"] the keepers of the guard in the house of the king,

###### v6
and another third at the gate of Sur, and a third at the gate behind the runners, shall guard the post of the palace alternately.

###### v7
Two of the units among you, all _who go on duty on the Sabbath_, ^[Literally "the going out of the Sabbath"] guard the post of the temple of Yahweh for the king.

###### v8
You must surround the king all about, each with his weapon in his hand; whoever comes to the ranks must be killed. Be with the king _wherever he goes_." ^[Literally "when he goes out and when he comes"]

###### v9
So the commanders of hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded, and each took his men _who went off duty on the Sabbath_ ^[Literally "the coming of the Sabbath"] and those _who came on duty on the Sabbath_, ^[Literally "the going out of the Sabbath"] and they came to Jehoiada the priest.

###### v10
Then the priest gave to the commanders of the hundreds spears and small round shields which _were_ King David's, which _were_ in the temple of Yahweh.

###### v11
So the royal runners stood, each _with_ his weapons in his hand, from the side of the temple to the south up to the side of the temple on the north, around the altar and around the temple, about the king all around.

###### v12
Then he brought out the son of the king, put the crown on him with the testimony, and they made him king, anointed him, clapped _their_ hands, and said, "_Long_ live the king!"

###### v13
When Athaliah heard the sound of the runners of the people, she came to the people at the temple of Yahweh.

###### v14
She looked, and there was the king standing by the pillar according to the custom. The commanders and the trumpeters _were_ by the king, and all of the people of the land were rejoicing and blowing on the trumpets. Athaliah tore her clothes and she called, "Treason, treason!"

###### v15
Then Jehoiada the priest commanded the commanders of the hundreds, the appointed of the army, and he said to them, "Bring her out to the house of the ranks! The one coming after her _should_ kill her with the sword," for the priest had said, "Let her not be killed in the temple of Yahweh."

###### v16
So _they grabbed her_ ^[Literally "they put hands to her"] as she went _by_ the entranceway of the horses to the palace of the king, and she was killed there.

###### v17
Then Jehoiada _made_ ^[Literally "cut"] a covenant between Yahweh and the king and the people, that the people should be as a people for Yahweh, and _also a covenant_ between the king and the people.

###### v18
Then all the people of the land went to the temple of Baal and tore it down, and its altars and its images they broke completely into pieces. Mattan the priest of Baal they killed in front of the altars. Then the priest put guards over the house of Yahweh.

###### v19
He took the commanders of the hundreds and the Carites and the runners and all the people of the land, and they brought the king down from the temple of Yahweh. And they marched by the way of the runner's gate _to_ the palace of the king, and he sat on the throne of the kings.

###### v20
All the people of the land rejoiced, and the city rested; _for_ Athaliah had been killed with the sword in the palace of the king.

###### v21
 ^[2 Kings 11:21–12:21 in the English Bible is 2 Kings 12:1–22 in the Hebrew Bible] Jehoash _was_ _seven years old_ ^[Literally "a son of seven years"] when he began to reign.