---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 8
---

[[2 Kgs-07|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-09|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Elisha spoke to the woman whose son he had restored to life, saying, "Get up and go, you and your household, and dwell as an alien wherever you can, for Yahweh has called for a famine, and it will come to the land _for_ seven years."

###### v2
So the woman got up and did according to the word of the man of God. She and her household went and dwelt as an alien in the land of _the_ Philistines for seven years.

###### v3
It happened at the end of seven years that the woman returned from the land of _the_ Philistines and went out to appeal to the king for her household and for her _properties_. ^[Literally "fields"]

###### v4
Now the king _was_ speaking to Gehazi the servant of the man of God, saying, "Please tell me all of the great things which Elisha has done."

###### v5
It happened that as he _was_ telling the king how he had restored the dead to life, suddenly the woman whose son he had restored to life _was_ crying out to the king about her household and about her field. Then Gehazi said, "My lord the king, this _is_ the woman and this is her son whom Elisha restored to life!"

###### v6
So the king asked the woman, and she told him. So the king appointed for her a certain court official, saying, "Restore all that _is_ hers and all the yield of the field from _the_ day she left the land up to now."

###### v7
Elisha came _to_ Damascus. Now Ben-Hadad king of Aram _was_ ill, and he was told, "The man of God has come up here."

###### v8
Then the king said to Hazael, "Take a gift in your hand and go meet the man of God. Inquire of Yahweh from him, saying, 'Shall I recover from this illness?'"

###### v9
So Hazael went to meet him and took a gift in his hand of all of the good things of Damascus, a load _on each_ of forty camels, and he came and stood before him. Then he said, "Your son Ben-Hadad king of Aram has sent me to you, saying, 'Shall I recover from this illness?'"

###### v10
Elisha said to him, "Go; say to him, 'You shall certainly recover,' but Yahweh has shown me that he certainly will die."

###### v11
Then the man _fixed his gaze and stared at him_ ^[Literally "caused his face to stand and set it"] until he was ashamed and the man of God cried.

###### v12
Then Hazael asked, "Why _is_ my lord crying?" He said, "Because I know what evil you will do to the _Israelites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Israel"] You will _set their fortifications on fire_, ^[Literally "you will send their fortifications with the fire"] and you will kill their young men with the sword. Their little ones you will dash to pieces, and their pregnant women you will rip open!"

###### v13
Then Hazael said, "But how could your servant, who _is_ like a dog, do this great thing?" Elisha said, "Yahweh has shown me _that_ you _are to be_ king over Aram."

###### v14
So he departed from Elisha and came to his master. He asked him, "What did Elisha say to you." So he said, "He said to me that you will certainly recover."

###### v15
On the next day, he took the bed cover, dipped _it_ in the water, and spread _it_ over his face so that he died. Then Hazael became king in his place.

###### v16
Now in the fifth year of Joram son of Ahab, king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Joram son of Jehoshaphat became the king of Judah. ^[This likely indicates a coregency in Judah at the time.]

###### v17
He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.

###### v18
He walked in the way of the kings of Israel as the house of Ahab had done, for the daughter of Ahab became his wife, and he did evil in the eyes of Yahweh.

###### v19
Yet Yahweh was not willing to destroy Judah, for the sake of David his servant, as he had promised to give him a lamp for his sons always.

###### v20
In his days, Edom rebelled _against the rule_ ^[Literally "from under the hand"] of Judah, and they set up a king over them.

###### v21
So Joram crossed over to Zair and all the chariots with him. It happened that he arose _by_ night and attacked Edom who had surrounded him and the commanders of the chariots; but the army fled to their tents.

###### v22
So Edom has rebelled _against the rule_ ^[Literally "from under the hand"] of Judah until this day; then Libnah _also_ rebelled at that time.

###### v23
The remainder of the acts of Joram and all that he did, _are_ they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v24
So Joram slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and he was buried with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of David, and Ahaziah his son became king in place of him.

###### v25
In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab, king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Joram became king of Judah.

###### v26
Ahaziah _was_ twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. The name of his mother _was_ Athaliah daughter of Omri, king of Israel.

###### v27
He walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did evil in the eyes of Yahweh, as the house of Ahab; for he _was_ the son-in-law of the house of Ahab.

###### v28
He went with Joram the son of Ahab for the battle against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth-Gilead, and the Arameans wounded Joram.

###### v29
Joram the king returned to Jezreel to heal from the wounds which the Arameans had inflicted at Ramah when Hazael king of Aram fought him. Ahaziah the son of Joram, king of Judah, went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, for he _was_ ill.