---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 24
---

[[2 Kgs-23|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-25|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In his days, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up _because_ Jehoiakim had become his servant _for_ three years; then he turned and rebelled against him.

###### v2
So Yahweh sent against him raiding bands of Chaldeans, raiding bands of Aram, raiding bands of Moab, and raiding bands of the _Ammonites_. ^[Literally "sons/children of Ammon"] He had sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of Yahweh that he had spoken by the hand of his servants the prophets.

###### v3
Surely, it was _on the command_ ^[Literally "on the mouth"] of Yahweh against Judah to remove them from his sight because of the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he had done.

###### v4
Also, _for_ the blood of the innocent that he had shed--and he filled Jerusalem _with_ innocent blood--Yahweh was not willing to forgive.

###### v5
The remainder of the acts of Jehoiakim and all that he did, _are_ they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v6
So Jehoiakim slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and Jehoiachin his son became king in his place.

###### v7
The king of Egypt did not again come out from his land, for the king of Babylon had taken _territory_ from the Wadi of Egypt to the Euphrates River.

###### v8
Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. The name of his mother _was_ Nehushta daughter of Elnathan from Jerusalem.

###### v9
He did evil in the eyes of Yahweh according to all that his father had done.

###### v10
At that time, the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came _to_ Jerusalem, and the city came under the siege.

###### v11
Then Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city _while_ his servants were besieging it.

###### v12
Jehoiachin king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he, his mother, his servants, his commanders, and his court officials. The king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign.

###### v13
Then he took from there all of the treasures of the temple of Yahweh and the treasures of the palace of the king. He cut up all of the vessels of gold which Solomon the king of Israel had made in the temple of Yahweh, as Yahweh had foretold.

###### v14
He deported all of Jerusalem: all of the commanders, ten thousand of the skilled warriors, and the artisans; no one was left over except the poorest of the people of the land.

###### v15
He deported Jehoiachin to Babylon; the mother of the king, the wives of the king, his court officials, and the citizenry of the land he caused to go into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon:

###### v16
of all of the skilled men, seven thousand, and _of_ the skilled craftsmen and the artisans, one thousand. All of the mighty warriors _fit for war_ ^[Literally "doers of war"] the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.

###### v17
Then the king of Babylon made Mattaniah his uncle king in his place and changed his name _to_ Zedekiah.

###### v18
Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother _was_ Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah from Libnah.

###### v19
He did evil in the eyes of Yahweh _just_ like all that Jehoiakim had done.

###### v20
For it happened because of the anger of Yahweh, in Jerusalem and in Judah, until they were cast out from his presence. Then Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.