---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 2
---

[[2 Kgs-01|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-03|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
When Yahweh was about to take Elijah up in the storm _to_ heaven, Elijah and Elisha went from Gilgal.

###### v2
Elijah said to Elisha, "Please stay here, for Yahweh has sent me up to Bethel." Elisha said, "_As Yahweh lives_ ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] and _as your soul lives_, ^[Literally "life of your soul"] I will certainly not leave you!" So they went down _to_ Bethel.

###### v3
Then the sons of the prophets who _were in_ Bethel came out to Elisha, and they said to him, "Do you know that Yahweh _is_ going to take your master _from you_ ^[Literally "from over your head"] today?" He said, "I also know; be quiet!"

###### v4
Elijah said to him, "Elisha, please stay here because Yahweh has sent me to Jericho." And he said, "_As Yahweh lives_ ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] and _as your soul lives_, ^[Literally "life of your soul"] I will certainly not leave you!" So they came to Jericho.

###### v5
Then the sons of the prophets who _were_ in Jericho came near to Elisha, and they said to him, "Do you know that Yahweh _is_ going to take your master _from you_ ^[Literally "from over your head"] today?" He said, "I also know; be quiet!"

###### v6
Then Elijah said to him, "Please stay here, because Yahweh has sent me to the Jordan." He said, "_As Yahweh lives_ ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh"] and _as your soul lives_, ^[Literally "life of your soul"] I will certainly not leave you!" So the two of them went on.

###### v7
Then fifty men from the sons of the prophets went and stood opposite _them_ at a distance while the two of them stood by the Jordan.

###### v8
Elijah took his cloak, rolled it up, and struck the water. It divided _in two_, ^[Literally "here and here"] and the two of them crossed over on dry land.

###### v9
After they crossed over, Elijah said to Elisha, "Ask what I may do for you before I am taken away from you." Then Elisha said, "Please let there come to me a double portion of your spirit."

###### v10
He said, "What you ask is difficult. If you see me being taken from you, it will be so for you, but if not, it will not happen."

###### v11
Then they _were_ walking, talking as they went. Suddenly a fiery chariot with horses of fire _appeared_ and separated between the two of them. Elijah went up in the storm _to_ the heavens

###### v12
while Elisha _was_ watching and crying out, "My father, my father; the chariot of Israel and its horsemen!" But he could not see him any longer, and he grasped his clothes and tore them in two pieces.

###### v13
Then he picked up Elijah's cloak that had fallen off of him, and he returned and stood on the bank of the Jordan.

###### v14
He took Elijah's cloak that had fallen from upon him and struck the water. Then he said, "Where is Yahweh, the God of Elijah?" So he also struck the water, and it divided _in two_, ^[Literally "here and here"] and Elisha crossed over.

###### v15
When the sons of the prophets who _were_ at Jericho saw him from _the_ other side, they declared, "The spirit of Elijah rests upon Elisha," and they came to meet him and bowed down to him to the ground.

###### v16
Then they said to him, "Look, there are with your servants fifty able men. Please let them go and look for your master, lest the Spirit of Yahweh has lifted him up and thrown him on one of the mountains or into one of the valleys," but he said, "You must not send them."

###### v17
But they urged him until embarrassing _him_, so he said, "Send them." So they sent fifty men, and they looked for three days, but they could not find him.

###### v18
Then they returned to him while he _was_ staying in Jericho. He said to them, "Did I not tell you not to go?"

###### v19
The men of the city said to Elisha, "Please now, the location of the city _is_ good, as my master can see, but the water _is_ bad and the land unproductive."

###### v20
So he said, "Bring me a new bowl and put salt in it." So they brought it to him.

###### v21
Then he went out to the spring of waters and threw the salt _into it_ there and said, "Thus says Yahweh, 'I hereby purify these waters; let there be no longer any death or unproductiveness from it.'"

###### v22
Then the waters were purified until this very day according to the word of Elisha that he spoke.

###### v23
Then he went up from there _to_ Bethel; as he _was_ going up along the way, young boys came out from the city and mocked at him and said to him, "Go up, baldhead; go up, baldhead!"

###### v24
When he turned around and saw them, he cursed them in the name of Yahweh. Then two bears came out of the forest and mauled forty-two boys among them.

###### v25
Then he went from there to Mount Carmel and from there he returned _to_ Samaria.