---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 22
---

[[2 Kgs-21|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-23|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother _was_ Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah from Bozkath.

###### v2
He did right in the eyes of Yahweh, and he walked in all of the way of David his ancestor ^[Or "father"] and did not turn aside to the right or to the left.

###### v3
It happened in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent _word to_ Shaphan the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam, the secretary of the temple of Yahweh, saying,

###### v4
"Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, and let them count the money being brought to the temple of Yahweh which the keepers of the threshold have collected from the people,

###### v5
and let them give it into the hand of those appointed doers of the work at the temple of Yahweh. Let them give it to the doers of the work who _are_ at the temple of Yahweh to repair the breach of the temple:

###### v6
to the skilled craftsmen, to the builders, to the masons, and to buy timber and hewing stones to repair the temple.

###### v7
Only the money being given to them is not to be accounted for by them, for they _are_ dealing with honesty."

###### v8
Then Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, "I have found the scroll of the Torah in the temple of Yahweh," and Hilkiah gave the scroll to Shaphan and he read it.

###### v9
Shaphan the secretary came to the king and returned the king a word, and he said, "Your servant poured out the money found in the temple, and they have given it into the hand of the doers of the work appointed _over_ the temple of Yahweh."

###### v10
Then Shaphan the secretary informed the king saying, "Hilkiah the priest has given me a scroll." Then Shaphan read before the king.

###### v11
When the king heard the words of the scroll of the Torah, he tore his clothes.

###### v12
Then the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Acbor the son of Micaiah, Shaphan the secretary, and Asaiah the servant of the king, saying,

###### v13
"Go, inquire of Yahweh for me and for the people and for all of Judah concerning the words of this scroll _that was_ found. For the wrath of Yahweh that is kindled against us _is_ great because our ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] did not listen to the words of this scroll to do according to all that is written concerning us!"

###### v14
So Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Acbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah the son of Harhas, the keeper of the robes. Now she _was_ living in Jerusalem in the second district. Then they spoke to her,

###### v15
and she said to them, "Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, 'Say to the man who sent you to me,

###### v16
"Thus says Yahweh, 'Look I am bringing evil to this place and upon its inhabitants, _according to_ all of the words of that scroll that the king of Judah has read

###### v17
because they have abandoned me and they have burned incense to other gods, provoking me to anger with all of the works of their hands. My wrath shall be kindled against this place and not be quenched.'"

###### v18
And to the king of Judah who sent all of you to inquire of Yahweh, thus you shall say to him, "Thus says Yahweh the God of Israel, '_Concerning_ the words that you have heard,

###### v19
because you have a responsive heart, and you humbled yourself before Yahweh when you heard how I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants to become a desolation and a curse, and you have torn your clothes and wept before my face, I have also heard, declares Yahweh.

###### v20
Therefore look, I am gathering you to your ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and you shall be gathered to your tombs in peace. Your eyes will not see all of the disaster that I am bringing onto this place.'"'" Then they _reported the word_ ^[Literally "they returned a word"] to the king.