---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 6
---

[[2 Kgs-05|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-07|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Then the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, "Please look; the place where we are living before you _is_ too cramped for us.

###### v2
Let us please go to the Jordan and each bring from there one log that we might make a place there for us to live." Then he said, "Do so."

###### v3
Then a certain one said, "Please be prepared and go with your servants," and he said, "I will go."

###### v4
He went with them, and they went to the Jordan, and they cut down the trees.

###### v5
It happened as the one _was_ felling the log, that the iron ax fell into the water. He called out and said, "Oh, no! My master, it was borrowed!"

###### v6
Then the man of God said, "Where did it fall?" So he showed him the place, and then he cut off a stick and threw _it_ there and made the iron ax float.

###### v7
Then he said, "Pick _it_ up for yourself," so he stretched out his hand and took it.

###### v8
The king of Aram was fighting with Israel, so he consulted with his officers, saying, "My camp is _at such and such a place_." ^[Literally "to a place a certain someone"]

###### v9
Then the man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, "Take care while crossing over to this place, because _the_ Arameans _are_ descending there."

###### v10
So the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God said to him and warned him, so he was on guard there _continually_. ^[Literally "not once or twice"]

###### v11
Then the heart of the king of Aram was stormy because of this matter, so he called his servants and said to them, "Can you not tell me _who among us sides with the king of Israel_?" ^[Literally "who from of us to the king of Israel"]

###### v12
Then one of his servants said, "No, my lord the king, but Elisha the prophet who is _in_ Israel tells the king of Israel things which you speak _in your own bedchamber_." ^[Literally "in the private room of your bed"]

###### v13
Then he said, "Go and see where he _is_ so that I can send and capture him." Then he was told to him, "Look, _he is_ in Dothan."

###### v14
So he sent horses, chariots, and an oppressing army there. They arrived at night and surrounded the town.

###### v15
The attendant of the man of God arose early and went out, and look, the army _was_ surrounding the city with horses and chariots. His servant said to him, "Oh no, my master! What shall we do?"

###### v16
And he said, "Don't be afraid, for more _are_ with us than are with them."

###### v17
Then Elisha prayed and said, "O Yahweh, please open his eyes that he may see," and Yahweh opened the eyes of the servant, and he saw, and look, the mountain _was_ full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.

###### v18
They came down to him, and Elisha prayed to Yahweh and said, "Please strike this people with blindness," so he struck them with blindness as _Elisha had spoken_. ^[Literally "according to the word of Elisha"]

###### v19
Then Elisha said to them, "This _is_ not the way and this _is_ not the city. Come after me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek." Then he brought them to Samaria.

###### v20
It happened at the moment they came to Samaria, Elisha said, "O Yahweh, open the eyes of these that they may see," so Yahweh opened their eyes, and they saw, and look, the middle of Samaria!

###### v21
Then the king of Israel said to Elisha when he saw them, "Shall I kill them? Shall I kill, my father?"

###### v22
And he said, "You shall not kill. Would you kill _those_ whom you took captive with the sword or with the bow? Put food and water before them that they may eat and drink and then go to their master."

###### v23
So he made a great feast for them, and they ate and drank; then he sent them, and they went to their master. And the bands of the Arameans did not come again into the land of Israel.

###### v24
It happened after this that Ben-Hadad king of Aram assembled all of his army and marched up and laid siege against Samaria.

###### v25
There was a great famine in Samaria, and behold, a siege _was_ against it, until the head of a donkey _went_ for eighty shekels of silver, and one fourth of the measure of the dung of doves _went_ for five shekels of silver.

###### v26
It happened that the king of Israel _was_ crossing over on the wall, and a woman called out to him, saying, "Help, my lord the king!"

###### v27
He said, "No, let Yahweh help you. _How_ ^[Literally "From where"] can I save you? From the threshing floor or from the wine press?"

###### v28
The king said to her, "_What is the problem_?" ^[Literally "What is for you"] Then the woman said, "This woman said to me, 'Give me your son, and let us eat him today, then tomorrow we will eat my son.'

###### v29
So we cooked my son and ate him, and I said to her the next day, 'Give your son that we may eat him.' But she had hidden her son."

###### v30
It happened that when the king heard the words of the woman, he tore his clothes. Now he had been walking on the wall, and the people saw, and behold, sackcloth was over his flesh underneath.

###### v31
Then he said, "May God do to me and thus may he add, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on him today!"

###### v32
Now Elisha _was_ sitting in his house and the elders _were_ sitting with him, and _the king_ dispatched a man from before him, but before the messenger came to him, he said to the elders, "Did you see that this son of a murderer has sent to remove my head? Look, when the messenger comes, close the door; and you must _hold the door closed against him_. ^[Literally "hold him close against the door"] _Is_ not the sound of the feet of his master behind him?"

###### v33
While he _was_ still speaking with them, suddenly the messenger _was_ coming down to him, and he said, "Look this trouble _is_ from Yahweh. Why should I wait for Yahweh any longer?"