---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 3
---

[[2 Kgs-02|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-04|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
Now Joram the son of Ahab had become king over Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah. He reigned twelve years

###### v2
and did evil in the eyes of Yahweh, yet not as his father or his mother, as he removed the stone pillars of Baal that his father had made.

###### v3
But he did cling to the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat who caused Israel to sin, and he did not depart from it.

###### v4
Now Mesha king of Moab was a sheep breeder, and he used to deliver to the king of Israel a hundred thousand male lambs and a hundred thousand wool rams.

###### v5
It happened that when Ahab died, Mesha king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel.

###### v6
So King Joram went out on that day from Samaria, and he mustered all of Israel.

###### v7
He went and sent _a message_ to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, saying, "The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me against Moab for the battle?" And he said, "I will go up. _I am like you_; ^[Literally "Like I am, like you are"] _my people are like your people_; ^[Literally "like my people, like your people"] _my horses are like your horses_." ^[Literally "like my horses, like your horses"]

###### v8
Then he said, "Which way shall we go up?" And he answered, "By way of the wilderness of Edom."

###### v9
So the king of Israel and the king of Judah and the king of Edom went around, a way of seven days, but there was no water for the army or for the animals which _were with them_. ^[Literally "_were_ at their feet"]

###### v10
Then the king of Israel said, "Aha, Yahweh has called for these three kings to give them into the hand of Moab."

###### v11
Then Jehoshaphat asked, "Is there no prophet of Yahweh here that we might inquire _guidance_ from Yahweh?" One of the servants of the king of Israel answered and said, "Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who poured water on the hands of Elijah." ^[That is, Elisha had served Elijah]

###### v12
Jehoshaphat said, "The word of Yahweh is with him." So the king of Israel, Jehoshaphat, and the king of Edom went down to him.

###### v13
Then Elisha said to the king of Israel, "_What do we have in common_? ^[Literally "What to me and what for you"] Go to the prophets of your father and to the prophets of your mother." Then the king of Israel said to him, "No, for Yahweh has called for these three kings to give them into the hand of Moab."

###### v14
Then Elisha said, "_As Yahweh of hosts lives_, ^[Literally "The life of Yahweh of hosts"] before whom I stand, surely if I was not _regarding the face_ ^[Or "lifting the face"] of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, I would have not looked at you nor even glanced at you.

###### v15
But now, bring me a musician." It happened that at the moment the musician played, the hand of Yahweh came upon him.

###### v16
He said, "Thus says Yahweh, 'Make this wadi _full of cisterns_,' ^[Literally "cisterns, cisterns"]

###### v17
for thus says Yahweh, 'You will see neither wind nor rain, yet this wadi will be full of water; and you and all of your livestock and your animals shall drink.'

###### v18
And since this is too trivial in the eyes of Yahweh, he will also give Moab into your hand,

###### v19
and you shall defeat every fortified city, every choice city, and you shall fell every good tree. All of the springs of water you shall stop up, and every tract of good land you shall ruin with the stones."

###### v20
It happened in the morning about the time of the _morning_ offering, that water was suddenly coming from the direction of Edom and the land was filled with water.

###### v21
Now all of Moab had heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, and all _who were fighting age and up_ ^[Literally "who girded on a belt and above"] were called up, and they stood at the border.

###### v22
When they arose early in the morning, the sun shone on the waters, and Moab saw the waters from the opposite _side_ as red as blood.

###### v23
Then they said, "This _is_ blood! Certainly the kings have fought one another, and each has killed his neighbor. Now, to the war booty, O Moab!"

###### v24
But when they came to the camp of Israel, Israel stood up and killed Moab, so that they fled from before them. They came at her and defeated Moab.

###### v25
The cities they tore down, _on_ every good tract of land they threw stones until it was filled up, every spring of water they stopped up, and every good tree they felled. They let the stone walls at Kir Hareseth remain, but the slingers surrounded and attacked it.

###### v26
When the king of Moab saw that the battle was too heavy for him, he took with him seven hundred men who drew the sword to break through to the king of Edom, but they were not able.

###### v27
He took his firstborn son who was to become king in his place and offered him _as_ a burnt offering on the wall. Great wrath came upon Israel, and they withdrew from him and returned to the land.