---
aliases:
  - 2 Kings 15
---

[[2 Kgs-14|Previous Chapter]] | [[2 Kgs-16|Next Chapter]]

###### v1
In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Azariah the son of Amaziah king of Judah began to reign.

###### v2
He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother _was_ Jecoliah of Jerusalem.

###### v3
He did right in the eyes of Yahweh, according to all that Amaziah his father had done.

###### v4
Only he did not remove the high places; the people _were_ still sacrificing and burning incense on the high places.

###### v5
Yahweh struck the king, and he was infected with a skin disease until the day of his death. He lived in a separate house, _while_ Jotham the son of the king _was_ over the house, governing the people of the land.

###### v6
The remainder of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, _are_ they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v7
So Azariah slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and they buried him with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of David, and Jotham his son became king in his place.

###### v8
In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel in Samaria for six months.

###### v9
He did evil in the eyes of Yahweh as his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] had done. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat which he caused Israel to sin.

###### v10
Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, struck him in front of the people, killed him, and reigned in his place.

###### v11
Now the remainder of the acts of Zechariah, look, they are written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel.

###### v12
This is the word of Yahweh which he spoke to Jehu, saying, "Sons of a fourth _generation_ shall sit for you on the throne of Israel," and it was so.

###### v13
Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he reigned _a full month_ ^[Literally "a month of days"] in Samaria.

###### v14
Then Menahem the son of Gadi came up from Tirzah, and he came _to_ Samaria and struck down Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria and killed him. Then he became king in place of him.

###### v15
Now the remainder of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he conspired; look, they _are_ written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel.

###### v16
At that time Menahem destroyed Tiphsah, all who _were_ in it, and all its territory from Tirzah, because _it_ had not opened _to him_, so he destroyed it and ripped open all of its pregnant women.

###### v17
In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel _for_ ten years in Samaria.

###### v18
But he did evil in the eyes of Yahweh. He did not depart all of his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat which he caused Israel to sin.

###### v19
Pul the king of Assyria came against the land, so Menahem gave a thousand talents of silver to Pul so that his hand would be with him _to strengthen his hold on the kingdom_. ^[Literally "to strengthen the kingship in his hand"]

###### v20
Menahem exacted the money from Israel, from all _the very rich_, ^[Literally "the mighty of the wealth"] to give to the king of Assyria fifty shekels of silver for each one. Then the king of Assyria returned and did not stay there in the land.

###### v21
Now the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, _are_ they not written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel?

###### v22
So Menahem slept with his ancestors, ^[Or "fathers"] and Pekahiah his son became king in his place.

###### v23
In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria _for_ two years.

###### v24
But he did evil in the eyes of Yahweh. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat which he caused Israel to sin.

###### v25
Pekah the son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against him, so he attacked him in Samaria in the citadel fortress of _the_ palace of the king, with Argob and Arieh. With him _also were_ fifty men from the children of the Gileadites, and he killed him and became king in his place.

###### v26
Now the remainder of the acts of Pekahiah and all that he did, look, they are written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel.

###### v27
In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria _for_ twenty years.

###### v28
He did evil in the eyes of Yahweh. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat which he caused Israel to sin.

###### v29
In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-Pileser the king of Assyria came and took Ijon, Abel-Beth-Maacah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, the Gilead, the Galilee, and all the land of Naphtali; then he deported them to Assyria.

###### v30
Hoshea the son of Elah conspired against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and he attacked and killed him. He reigned in place of him in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.

###### v31
Now the remainder of the acts of Pekah and all that he did, look, they are written in the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Israel.

###### v32
In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah began to reign.

###### v33
He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok.

###### v34
He did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, according to all that Uzziah his father had done.

###### v35
Only the high places were not removed; the people still _were_ sacrificing and offering incense on the high places. He built the upper gate of the temple of Yahweh.

###### v36
Now the remainder of the acts of Jotham which he did, _are_ they not written on the scroll of the events of the days of the kings of Judah?

###### v37
(Now, in those days, Yahweh began to send Rezin the king of Aram and Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah.)

###### v38
So Jotham slept with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] and was buried with his ancestors ^[Or "fathers"] in the city of David his ancestor, ^[Or "father"] and his son Ahaz became king in his place.