---
aliases:
  - 2 Peter 3
---

[[2 Pet-02|Previous Chapter]]

###### v1
Dear friends, this _is_ already the second letter I am writing to you, in _both of_ which I am attempting to stir up your sincere mind by a reminder,

###### v2
to remember the words proclaimed beforehand by the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles,

###### v3
above all knowing this, that in the last days scoffers will come with scoffing, following according to their own desires

###### v4
and saying, "Where is the promise of his coming? For _ever since_ ^[Literally "from which _time_"] the fathers fell asleep, all _things_ have continued just as they have been from the beginning of creation."

###### v5
For _when_ ^[Here "_when_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("maintain") which is understood as temporal] they maintain this, it escapes _their_ notice that the heavens existed long ago and the earth held together out of water and through water by the word of God,

###### v6
by means of which things the world that existed at that time was destroyed _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("being inundated") which is understood as means] being inundated with water.

###### v7
But by the same word the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly people.

###### v8
Now, dear friends, do not let this one thing escape your _notice_, that one day with the Lord _is_ like a thousand years, and a thousand years _is_ like one day.

###### v9
The Lord is not delaying the promise, as some consider slowness, but is being patient toward you, _because he_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("want") which is understood as causal] does not want any to perish, but all to come to repentance.

###### v10
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, in which the heavens will disappear with a rushing noise, and the celestial bodies will be destroyed _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("being burned up") which is understood as means] being burned up, and the earth and the deeds _done_ on it will be disclosed.

###### v11
_Because_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are being destroyed") which is understood as causal] all these things are being destroyed in this way, what sort of _people_ must you be in holy behavior and godliness,

###### v12
_while_ ^[Here "_while_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("waiting for") which is understood as temporal] waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be destroyed _by_ ^[Here "_by_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("being burned up") which is understood as means] being burned up and the celestial bodies will melt _as they_ ^[Here "_as_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are consumed by heat") which is understood as temporal] are consumed by heat!

###### v13
But according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness resides.

###### v14
Therefore, dear friends, _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("are waiting for") which is understood as causal] are waiting for these _things_, make every effort to be found at peace, spotless and unblemished in him.

###### v15
And regard the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as also our dear brother Paul wrote to you, according to the wisdom that was given to him,

###### v16
as _he does_ also in all his ^[Literally "the"; the Greek article is used here as a possessive pronoun] ^[Some manuscripts do not explicitly state "his"] letters, speaking in them about these _things_, in which there are some _things_ hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable distort to their own destruction, as _they_ also _do_ the rest of the scriptures.

###### v17
Therefore, dear friends, _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("know beforehand") which is understood as causal] know _this_ beforehand, guard yourselves so that you do not lose your own safe position _because you_ ^[Here "_because_" is supplied as a component of the participle ("have been led away") which is understood as causal] have been led away by the error of lawless persons.

###### v18
But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him _be_ the glory, both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.